We have just looked at compliance rules which scan messages and when certain conditions are met the rule is triggered and actions are taken on the message which include rejecting the message, modifying it (perhaps by redirecting it to another recipient) and or putting the message into quarantine.

In addition to rules, there are a number of other compliance controls available to you as the G Suite administrator. It's important that you understand the features available so the common controls are discussed briefly below.

## Email and chat auto-deletion

This control allows you to automatically delete email and chat messages that are older than a number of days that you specify. You can optionally ignore messages that have specific labels applied.

Note: If you need auto-deletion for all accounts regardless of account activity, such as for legal and compliance purposes, use Google Vault instead.

## Optical Character Recognition (OCR) for email attachments

OCR is a technology that extracts text from images. It scans GIF, JPG, PNG, and TIFF images. If you turn it on, the extracted text is then subject to any content compliance or objectionable content rules you set up for Gmail messages. For example, say you configured your content compliance setting so that messages with credit card numbers are moved to quarantine. A customer sends you a message with a PNG image attachment of an invoice that contains a credit card number. If you turn on OCR, Gmail converts the image attachment to text, detects the credit card number, and moves the message to quarantine.

## Restrict delivery

Use this feature if you want to only allow sending or receiving of email messages from addresses or domains that you specify. This feature is useful in education where the institution wants to restrict students from sending messages externally.
