## Introduction

In this exercise, you'll review and set security features and settings for your entire organization.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Security icon.

3\. Click Basic settings. Here we will review the settings for:

#### Password Recovery

This setting is applicable where you want to allow users to recover their own passwords. This is achieved through the use of a recovery email address or phone number. Note that password recovery is not available when using SSO, and 2-step verification users must use the email recovery option.

4\. By default, only a domain administrator can reset a user's password. To enable user password recovery, click the Enable/disable non-admin user password recovery link, and check the *Enable non-admin user password recovery* box in the 'Recovery' section. Then click SAVE.

#### 2-step verification (2SV)

2SV puts an extra barrier between your business and cybercriminals who try to steal usernames and passwords to access business data. Turning on 2SV is the single most important thing you can do to protect your business. 2SV requires users to verify their identity through something they know (such as a password) plus something they have (such as a physical key or access code delivered to a device). It's also called multi-factor authentication (MFA) or 2-factor authentication (2FA).

5\. Return to the Security > Basic settings section, in the '2-Step Verification' section, check* Allow users to turn on 2-step verification* and click SAVE. This makes 2SV available for your users, but DOES NOT automatically enroll them. To enroll, users need to configure their verification settings individually. We will discuss this later in this lesson.

#### Less secure apps

Some third party apps continue to use less secure sign-in technology. You can choose to deny access for these apps, which we recommend, or choose to allow access despite the risks.

6\. Return to the Security > Basic settings section. In the 'Less secure apps' section, click the Go to settings for less secure apps link. In 'Less secure apps' ensure that *Disable access for less secure apps for all users (recommended)* is selected. Click SAVE if you need to change this setting.

#### Password management

G Suite supports a number of password policies. Let's explore them.

7\. Return to the Security page and click Password management.

You can enforce password strength and also set a password length policy by setting minimum and maximum length values. You can enforce the length and strength policies when your users next login to their account or when they next change their password. The default enforcement is when the password is next changed.

You can choose whether to allow users to reuse their old passwords although this is not recommended. Finally you can enforce password expiry although we recommend you allow passwords to never expire.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set up password recovery for users](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33382 "Set up password recovery for users")
-   [Set up 2-Step Verification](https://support.google.com/a/answer/175197 "Set up 2-Step Verification")
-   [Control access to less secure apps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6260879 "Control access to less secure apps")
-   [Manage your users' password settings](https://support.google.com/a/answer/139399 "Manage your users' password settings")
-   [Create a strong password & a more secure account](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/32040 "Create a strong password & a more secure account")
