## Introduction

As an administrator, you can control how long users can access Google services, such as Gmail, without having to sign in again. You can set session lengths from 1 hour to indefinite so the session never expires. By default, the session length for Google services is 14 days.

If you want some users to have a different session length than others you can move them to a separate OU and set the session length for that OU to meet your business requirements.

In this exercise, you will learn how to reduce the session length for your contractors.

## Scenario

Your company provides laptops to off-site contractors and want to ensure that these devices are not compromised by someone leaving the device with an active G Suite session. They have decided to require each contractor to sign in at least once a day.

Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Security icon, scroll down and click Google session control.

3\. Click on the Contractors OU (left side of the page).

4\. Set 'Session control' to *8 hrs*.

5\. Click OVERRIDE. This will override the top level organization's setting of 14 days.

## Notes

1\. You cannot configure session length for native mobile apps.

2\. It can take 24 hours for changes to propagate to all users.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set session length for Google services](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7576830 "Set session length for Google services")
