## Introduction

Before Vault will preserve data you must have a retention rule. There are two types of retention rules:

Default: This global rule applies to your entire organization. You can define a default retention rule for each type of data supported. Default rules define how long to keep data and what to do with the data once the time has elapsed. Default rules are only triggered if no custom rules or holds apply.

Custom: Custom rules offer more flexibility than the default rules. For example you can create a custom rule and apply to OUs. You can set date ranges and enter search terms to match data such as Gmail messages. Custom rules always override the default rule, and if multiple retention rules apply to a message or file, it is retained according to the rule with the longest retention coverage period.

WARNING: An improperly configured retention rule can cause the immediate and irreversible purging of data from user accounts. Use caution when creating or changing retention rules. We recommend that you test new rules on a small group of users before applying them to your entire organization.

In this exercise we will define a default and a custom retention rule for Gmail.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from the Sam Morse:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*I have been thinking about how we retain information in G Suite. I want to ensure that we retain our email for a year even if the email has been deleted from the user account. At the same time I would like to keep executive emails for 5 years. I understand that G Suite offers us the capability to do that. Can you make this happen?*

*Regards,*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

Sam wants all mail to be archived for a period of one year after which it can be expunged. Messages from any executives should be retained for 5 years. We'll start by creating a default rule that will apply to the executive only.

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Open a new browser tab and open [ediscovery.google.com/discovery](https://ediscovery.google.com/discovery/ "Google Vault"). This will open Google Vault.

3\. From the left menu, click Retention, then click CREATE RULE.

4\. In the 'Type' field, select *Mail*.

5\. Select the *Executive* OU.

For the purposes of this exercise you can skip the conditions section. This section however is useful if you want to define date criteria or search terms for this rule.

6\. Change the duration value from *Indefinitely *to *1825 *days (5 years) and ensure 'Expunge only the messages that users have already deleted.' is selected.

7\. Click Save. Read the informational messages that follow, tick them and click Confirm to create the rule.

This custom rule will expunge any message over 5 years old that the user has already deleted. This rule is applied to the Executive OU only. Now we will add the default rule.

8\. From the left menu, click Retention and under the Default retention rules, click Mail.

9\. Check the 'Set a default retention rule for Mail' box. You can now choose how long to keep messages.

10\. Change the default value from *Indefinitely* to *365* days and select 'Expunge only the messages that users have already deleted'. Note: If you choose the second option this rule may expunge messages that users want to keep.

11\. Click Save. Read the informational messages that follow, tick them and click Confirm to create the rule.

The default rule above will automatically expunge all deleted messages after 1 year. Note that the custom rule we created initially overrides the default rule so the Executive OU's deleted messages are retained for 5 years

## Notes

1\. The Gmail service includes a compliance setting 'Email and chat auto-deletion' that allows the administrator to automatically delete email and chat after a specified number of days. You should not use this feature alongside Vault. More details can be found in the Control email and chat message storage article.
