## Introduction

In Google Vault, a matter is a container for all of the data related to a specific topic, such as a litigation case or investigation. A matter includes:

-   Saved search queries
-   A list of accounts with data on litigation hold
-   A list of the accounts that can access the matter
-   Export sets for the matter
-   An audit trail for the matter

In this exercise you will create a matter and place two user accounts on hold.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from the Sam Morse:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*We have an issue with Project X and I need to ensure we retain all relevant emails relating to this project. I know we do be default expunge messages over one year old but I need them to be retained until the situation is resolved for the following employees.*

*lars.ericsson@yourdomain, jon.baird@youurdomain*

*Regards,*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Open a new browser tab and open [ediscovery.google.com/discovery](https://ediscovery.google.com/discovery/ "Google Vault"). This will open Google Vault.

3\. From the left menu, click CREATE and in the dialog box presented enter a 'Matter name' of *Project X *then click Create new matter.

4\. Click CREATE HOLD and enter a 'Name' of *Project X related messages*.

5\. Select the 'Type' or Mail.

6\. Ensure 'User' is set to *Accounts* and enter the following email addresses into the box below:

*lars.ericsson@yourdomain, jon.baird@youurdomain*

You could at this point use the conditions section to refine the data to hold. For example, if Project X only started 2 months ago you might want to retain only messages after the project started, or you might want to use search terms to hold only messages that make reference to Project X. See [Use search operators](https://support.google.com/vault/answer/2474474 "Use search operators"). In this case however, we will retain all messages for the two accounts above.

7\. Click Save.

Messages for the two users will now be retained until the hold is lifted. At this point you can share the hold from the hold list. You can also edit the hold as needed.
