## Introduction

In this lesson, you will go through a series of exercises to setup your G Suite domain, create a new account, sign in to your admin console for the first time, and customize your company's profile.

## Domain considerations

When you create a G Suite account you associate it with a primary domain which is registered with a domain registrar such as Enom or GoDaddy.

During the G Suite sign up flow you can choose to purchase a domain or use an existing domain that you own. The exercise that follows takes you through purchasing a domain during sign up. This ensures that your domain ownership is verified immediately and that your Domain Name System (DNS) records are configured correctly for use with G Suite.

If you prefer to use an existing domain you can do so but you should consider the following:

-   You must verify domain ownership manually. This process will vary depending upon your domain registrar.
-   Domain verification typically takes less than 1 hour although it can take longer which may delay your progress through the course.
-   You must manually update your DNS records to work with G Suite.
-   This training does not cover configuring G Suite with an existing domain as steps vary depending upon your registrar. You should use the Help Center resources below to complete the setup process.

## Help Center resources

If you are bringing your own domain, you should read:

-   [Verify your domain for G Suite](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216 "Verify your domain for G Suite")
-   [Set up MX records for G Suite Gmail](https://support.google.com/a/answer/140034 "Set up MX records for G Suite Gmail")
-   [Authorize email senders with SPF](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33786 "Authorize email senders with SPF")

Remember to use the Help Center links when they are provided. The Help Center is what we consider our single source of truth!
