## Introduction

In this exercise, you'll purchase a new domain name through Google and register that domain for a 14-day trial of G Suite. Follow the directions carefully!

## Notes

1.  You will need to enter your payment information and you will be charged for the cost of your domain. You will not be charged for your G Suite account as long as you remember to cancel your subscription before the end of the trial period. This is very IMPORTANT to avoid any unwanted charges! For instructions on how to cancel your trial, see [About your free G Suite trial](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6388094 "About your free G Suite trial").
2.  You can choose any name for your domain as long as it is available. However, if you're planning to keep the domain after the course has finished, choose your domain name wisely as you can't change it later. The domain name you sign up with will be your primary domain.
3.  If you prefer to use an existing domain, complete the Steps 1 - 5 only and choose YES, I HAVE ONE I CAN USE when asked if you have a domain. This will take you through a different path to complete your setup. Help Center resources are provided at the bottom of the page to guide you through the additional steps you will need to take if you are using an existing domain.

## Directions

Complete the steps below. Ensure that you follow the embedded links in order to get the best experience in your hands-on training!

1\. Open a web browser window and go to the [G Suite pricing page](https://gsuite.google.com/pricing.html). [ ](https://gsuite.google.com/)

2\. The default G Suite trial edition is G Suite Basic but for this training you will require a trial version of G Suite Enterprise so click the GET STARTED box in the 'G Suite Enterprise' column. This will take you to the first screen in the sign-up process.

3\. Enter the following information:

-   Business or organization name
-   Enter the number of employees or members of your organization - for this training you can choose: *Just You*.
-   Country

4\. Click NEXT and at the next screen, enter the following information:

-   Your first and last names
-   A current email address

5\. Click NEXT. This takes you to the screen where you choose what domain you will associate with your new G Suite account. For this training, you are allowing Google to provision a new domain for you so click NO, I NEED ONE. If you prefer to use an existing domain, choose YES, I HAVE ONE I CAN USE.

6\. Enter your desired domain name. Google will now check to see if that domain is already registered. If it is you can choose from a list of similar domain names or enter another name.

7\. Click NEXT once Google has determined that your chosen domain name is available.

8\. Enter your business address details and click NEXT.

9\. Here you can choose whether you want to receive occasional emails from Google. For this training, just click NO, THANKS.

10\. You must now create your G Suite super administrator account. Enter an email address, e.g. admin@*yourdomain* and a password, and tick the I'm not a robot box.

11\. Click AGREE AND CONTINUE. In a few moments you will be redirected to a login page where you can now sign into your new G Suite account.

12\. Verify that the email address you entered in Step 10 appears in the 'Email or phone box' field and click NEXT. Then enter the password you specified in Step 10.

Note: At this point, you may be asked to verify your identity using a code which will be sent to your phone. If you are prompted, follow the instructions on the screen to obtain your verification code and enter it to continue. Your code will be in the format *G-123456*. You only need to enter the numeric part of the code into the verification screen.

13\. You should now have arrived at the 'New account' screen. Click Accept to accept Google's terms and conditions.

14\. You are now asked to choose your preferred payment plan. For this training, select Flexible plan and click NEXT.

15\. You are nearly done. You should now review the information presented. You will need to enter your credit card details before you can complete the setup. If you do not want to keep your new domain name, deselect the 'Automatically renew my domain registration every year' option in the 'Domain registration preferences' section. Once you are satisfied that the information is correct, click NEXT.

16\. The next screen will indicate that G Suite account has been created. From here, click CONTINUE TO ADMIN CONSOLE.

## Notes

1.  You will receive three email notifications to let you know that your G Suite account is ready, billing has been setup and your domain purchase is verified. It can take 30 minutes or longer to receive these messages and for all the services to be available.

## Help Center resources

If you are bringing your own domain, you should read:

-   [Verify your domain for G Suite](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216 "Verify your domain for G Suite")
-   [Set up MX records for G Suite Gmail](https://support.google.com/a/answer/140034 "Set up MX records for G Suite Gmail")
-   [Authorize email senders with SPF](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33786 "Authorize email senders with SPF")
