## Introduction

The Company profile is where you define company-wide settings for properties such as language, time zone, and company name. You also use this profile to manage policies such as when users can see newly released features in G Suite services.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Company profile icon.

3\. Click the Profile section.

This is where you can configure company-wide settings. Explore the various profile settings.

-   The 'Organization name' will be taken from the information that you provided when you signed up for G Suite. This may be your domain name or the business name you entered at that time. This name that will appear to your users in many G Suite services.
-   The email addresses found in the 'Contact information' section also match the information that was provided during the sign up process.
-   You can use the 'Support message' section to enter a message users will see when they sign into the [User Hub](https://apps.google.com/user/hub). This is a useful place to add details advising your users how to contact support.
-   Verify the 'Language' and 'Time zone'. These represent the default settings for new accounts.
-   The 'New User Features' setting is where you control how fast new features are released to your users for existing services. *Scheduled Release* is the default and recommended setting. Choose this track to delay releasing new features to users (typically 1-2 weeks following rapid release) which will give you more time to train your support staff and prepare users for the coming changes. For more information, see [Set up G Suite feature releases for users](https://support.google.com/a/answer/172177).
-   The 'New products' setting allows you to control whether new G Suite services become available to your users as they are released or not. For more information, see [Opt in to new services](https://support.google.com/a/answer/82691).

4\. if you have made any changes, click SAVE.

5\. Click the Personalization section. This is where you can upload your company logo and brand the G Suite services for your users. Optionally, create an image file and upload it to your company profile. The recommended size for a logo image is 320 x 132 pixels. See[ Add your logo](https://support.google.com/a/answer/96474?visit_id=1-636336707735283053-2025680191&rd=1) for more information.

## Other settings

-   Communication preferences: Set which communications you wish to receive from Google. By default all options are disabled.
-   Supplemental Data Storage: Specify an additional country in which you want your user's data stored. This is a company-wide setting. See [Set up Supplemental Data Storage](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6281927) for more information.
-   Legal and Compliance: Find links to legal and compliance information and contact details.
-   Data regions: Set policies which control where your user's data is stored in Google's data centers. See [Choose a geographic location for your data ](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7630496)for more information.
-   Custom URLs: Define user friendly URLs to your core G Suite services. See [Customize a G Suite service URL](https://support.google.com/a/answer/53340) for more information.
-   Account management: Used to delete your G Suite account.
