## Introduction

Now that you have created a matter, you will probably want to investigate further so you will want to search and then potentially export results for analysis. In this exercise, you will look at the search options available in Vault and export results.

Tip: Check out the video at the top of the [Get started with search and export](https://support.google.com/vault/answer/6161352 "Get started with search and export") article to see search and export in action.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Open a new browser tab and open [ediscovery.google.com/discovery](https://ediscovery.google.com/discovery/ "Google Vault"). This will open Google Vault and you should see a list f your matters. if you do not see the Project X matter, click Matters > My matters.

3\. Hover over and click onto the Project X matter row to open it.

4\. Click Search. Explore the search options available. Note that you can also get a count of your search results before ou search (as searches can take some time) and you can also export directly from the search page.

5\. Run a search (any search you like as long as you get some results).

Once you have some results you can save your query for later, or export your results.

6\. From the search results, click Export results. You must give the export a name and you can choose the output format for later analysis.

## Notes

1\. Exports are available for 15 days so you should download them immediately they become available.

2\. You can delete the export once you ave downloaded it or allow it to be purged automatically.

## Help Center resources

-   [Get started with search and export](https://support.google.com/vault/answer/6161352 "Get started with search and export")
