## Introduction

Gmail supports Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC) as a way to protect you from spammers forging the From address in an email to make it appear that it came from someone in your organization. Use DMARC to define how a mail server should handle messages that appear to be sent from your domain but that are actually spam.

DMARC helps email senders and receivers verify incoming messages by authenticating the sender's domain. DMARC also defines the action to take on suspicious incoming messages.

Before configuring DMARC you should set up SPF and DKIM. DMARC uses SPF and DKIM to verify that messages are authentic. Messages that do not pass SPF or DKIM can trigger your DMARC policy.

When a message triggers your DMARC policy you have three ways to handle the message:

-   Take no action on the message and log it in a daily report.

-   Mark the message as spam.

-   Tell the receiving server to reject the message. This also causes an SMTP bounce to the sender.

We recommend you start with the first option (take no action) then monitor and analyse the results by checking your daily reports. Once you are happy you can change the policy to 'quarantine' or 'reject'.

In this exercise you will enable DMARC for your G Suite account.

## Directions

1\. Sign into your domain registrar. See [Sign into your Domain Registrar](https://www.coursera.org/learn/g-suite-mail-management/supplement/6wpSd/exercise-1-sign-into-your-domain-registrar "Sign into your Domain Registrar").

2\. Locate your your DNS records and add a DMARC TXT record as shown below. Replace *yourdomain* with your G Suite primary domain name, and *admin-email* with your administrator's email address.

| Name | Record Type | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| _dmarc.*yourdomain* | TXT | v=DMARC1; p=none; rua=mailto:*admin-email* |

The TXT record you added above tells receiving servers what to do if DMARC is triggered. Here, no action is taken on the message and a daily report is mailed to you as the G Suite administrator.

Now that you have configured SPF, DKIM and DMARC here is what happens when a mail is sent from someone in your organization:

1.  Recipient server looks up SPF record and confirms that the sending server matches one in your allowed list.
2.  Recipient server checks the DKIM signature in the message header using the DKIM key in your DNS configuration.
3.  If the above checks pass, the recipient server delivers the message, otherwise the server follows the policy defined in your DMARC record and emails a daily report.

Congratulations you have successfully configured email security for your organization.

## Help Center resources

-   [About DMARC](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2466580 "About DMARC")
-   [Turn on DMARC](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2466563 "Turn on DMARC")
