As the administrator, you can set up rules to handle messages that contain content that matches one or more expressions. For example, you can:

-   Reject outbound messages that might contain sensitive company information, such as when your outbound filter detects the word "confidential."
-   Route messages with content that matches specific text strings or patterns to your legal department.

A compliance rule can scan messages for:

-   Attachment compliance: attachments of certain types
-   Content compliance: search for text content
-   Objectionable content: identify messages that contain words in a custom word lists that you define

Content compliance rules also allow the option of applying a predefined content match using a Data Loss Prevention (DLP) template. DLP lets you use predefined content detectors when scanning inbound or outbound email. Google specifically designed these detectors to locate sensitive data, such as credit card, Social Security, or passport numbers. Predefined detectors are available for many common U.S. and international data types.

When a message matches a compliance rule, you can:

-   Reject it
-   Quarantine it
-   Deliver it with modifications

In an earlier course you configured a compliance footer for outbound mail and created an attachment compliance rule to prevent users from receiving video, multimedia and music attachments from external users. See [Configure Compliance Policies](https://www.coursera.org/learn/managing-g-suite/supplement/0X5I2/exercise-4-configure-compliance-policies "Configure Compliance Policies") for more details. In this lesson you will create a content compliance and objectionable content rule. You will be able to identify the differences between the three rule types and what options to apply to meet specific business needs.
