## Introduction

This exercise is in two parts. In the first part you will create a content compliance rule based upon message content. In the second part you will explore the predefined DLP templates that are offered as part of a content compliance rule.

## Scenario

Your company is considering the purchase of another company but wants to keep discussions confidential and prevent leaks. The discussions are known internally as Project Jupiter. You receive the following email from Alex Bell.

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*The executive have asked if G Suite can prevent messages from leaving the organization if they contain references to Project Jupiter unless they are sent by an executive member.*

*Any message discussing this project from anyone outside of the executive should be redirected to Sam.*

*Can you make this happen?*

*Thanks, *

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

#### Part 1: Create and test a content compliance rule

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Scroll down and click Advanced settings.

4\. Scroll down to the 'Compliance' section and hover over the 'Content compliance' row, then click CONFIGURE. The 'Content compliance' dialog box displays.

5\. Enter a short description that will appear within the settings summary, such as *Secure Project Jupiter*.

6\. In the 'Email messages to affect' section, check the *Outbound* box.

7\. Click the Add link in the 'Expressions' box.

8\. Change the 'Expression type' from *Simple content match* to *Advanced content match*.

9\. Set 'Location' to *Body*.

10\. Set 'Match type' to *Contains text*.

11\. Enter *jupiter* into the 'Content' field and click SAVE.

12\. Click Add to add another expression.

13\. Change the 'Expression type' from *Simple content match* to *Advanced content match*.

14\. Set 'Location' to *Subject*.

15\. Set 'Match type' to *Contains text*.

16\. Enter *jupiter* into the 'Content' field and click SAVE.

17\. In the next section 'If the above expressions match, do the following', set the action to *Modify message.*

18\. Scroll down and check the *Change envelope recipient* box.

19\. Enter *samantha.morse@yourdomain* into the first option 'Replace recipient' .

20\. Scroll down and click the Show options link.

21\. Check the *Use address lists to bypass or control application of this setting* box and ensure *Bypass this setting for specific addresses / domains* is selected.

22\. Click the Use existing or create a new one link to create a new list. This will be the executive members who are allowed to discuss project Jupiter so are excluded from this rule.

23\. Enter a name for the list* Executive, *and click CREATE.

24\. Once the list appears in the dialog box, hover the list name, and click Edit. You can now manage the list.

25\. Initially the list is empty. Click Add to add a list entry.

26\. Enter the following email addresses and click SAVE. Separate each email address with a comma or space.

-   samantha.morse@yourdomain
-   lars.ericsson@yourdomain
-   timothy.lee@yourdomain

27\. Click ADD SETTING and click SAVE.

You have now successfully added a compliance rule. It will trigger if anyone in your organization (except Sam, Timothy, or Lars) send an email externally with the word Jupiter in the subject line or the body of the message. The message will not be delivered. Instead it will be re-routed to Sam's inbox.

Let's test that it works!

28\. Send an email from your admin account to an external address with the word *Jupiter* into the subject or body of the message.

Does the intended recipient receive the email? They should not because you are not allowed to discuss project Jupiter externally.

29\. Sign out and sign back in to G Suite at [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com") as *samantha.morse@yourdomain*. The message you sent should appear in her inbox. Open the message. Note that she can still see the intended recipient in the "To" field as well as who sent the message.

30\. As Sam, send a message with Jupiter in the subject or body to an external address.

Does the intended recipient receive the email? They should because Sam is allowed to send messages about Jupiter externally.

#### Part 2: Explore the DLP rules for Gmail

In this part you do not need to create a new rule but complete the steps below so that you are familiar with the types of predefined rules available to you for use as part of your DLP policies.

31\. Hover over the 'Content compliance' row, then click ADD ANOTHER. The 'Content compliance' dialog box displays.

32\. Click the Add link in the 'Expressions' box.

33\. Change the 'Expression type' from *Simple content match* to *Predefined content match*.

34\. Click on Please select a predefined content line to reveal the list of DLP rules to choose from.

35\. Select any predefined match from the list. Note how you can also specify a match frequency. This tells Gmail how many times a match must be found in a message before the rule is triggered.

36\. Click CANCEL, then click CANCEL again.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set up rules for content compliance](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1346934 "Set up rules for content compliance")
-   [Scan your email traffic using DLP rules](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6280516 "Scan your email traffic using DLP rules")
