## Introduction

In the previous exercise you created a content compliance rule that used an advanced content match to search different parts of a message for a text string. In this exercise, you will create an objectionable content rule. Unlike content compliance rules, this type of rule matches messages based upon 'word lists' that you define.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Scroll down and click Advanced settings.

4\. Scroll down to the 'Compliance' section and hover over the 'Objectionable content' row, then click CONFIGURE. The 'Objectionable content' dialog box displays.

5\. Enter a short description that will appear within the settings summary, such as *Looking for bad words*.

6\. In the 'Email messages to affect' section, check the *Outbound* and *Internal - sending* boxes.

7\. In the 'Add words you want to search for in each message', click the Edit link.

8\. Click Add link in the 'Custom objectionable words' box.

9\. Enter one or more words separated by commas or spaces and click SAVE.

10\. In the next section 'If the above expressions match, do the following', set the action to *Quarantine message.*

Under normal circumstances you might choose a different action such as redirecting the message to HR or perhaps just rejecting the message and notify the sender that the message was rejected. For the purposes of this exercise however, we wanted to introduce you to the admin quarantine so we will send any message detected by this rule there instead.

11\. Click ADD SETTING and click SAVE.

12\. Sign out and sign back in to G Suite at [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com") as *timothy.lee@yourdomain*. Send a message to another user in your organization with one the objectionable words in the body of the message.

13\. Sign out and sign back in as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

14\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

15\. Scroll down and click Manage quarantines, then click GO TO ADMIN QUARANTINE. This will launch the admin quarantine in a new tab. You can also navigate to the quarantine using the following link: <https://email-quarantine.google.com/adminreview>.

You should see the message that Timothy sent in Step 12 in the quarantine.

16\. Click on the message and explore the options.

From here you can see:

-   the message header
-   the message (the offending word(s) should also be highlighted)
-   which rule placed the message into the quarantine
-   the source of the message using the SHOW ORIGINAL button.

You can now choose to allow the message to be delivered or deny it using one of the buttons provided.

17\. Click DENY, then click Denied on the left side of the screen. You will see the message has been moved to this view. Note: If a message isn't allowed or denied within 30 days of it being quarantined it's automatically deleted from the quarantine.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set up rules for objectionable content](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1346936 "Set up rules for objectionable content")
-   [Set up and manage email quarantines](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6104172 "Set up and manage email quarantines")
