## Introduction

As a part of security best practice, we recommend you view and manage the security settings for your users in the admin console to reinforce and monitor the security of their Google accounts.

In this exercise, we'll ensure you're enforcing best practices by viewing your users' security settings.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Locate *Alex Bell* in the user list and click on his name, and click on the Security card. From here you can:

-   Reset Alex's password or require a password change.
-   Determine if Alex has enrolled in 2SV. If he is enrolled but 2SV is not enforced, you can also disable 2SV for him.
-   View the security keys enrolled by Alex. You can also add a key to his account. Note: Under normal circumstances, a user must enroll in 2SV themselves but if you as the administrator add a security key for the user, they are automatically enrolled.
-   Temporarily disable the login challenge. If there was a suspicious login session on a user account, they will be asked to verify their identity. If the authorized user can't verify their identity they are locked out of their account. As the administrator you can temporarily disable the login challenge (for 10 minutes) to allow the user to sign in.
-   Reset a user's sign in cookies. This signs the user out of all devices and browsers. This is useful if the user may have lost their phone as a primary measure of protection.
-   View and remove access to third-party applications, for example G Suite Marketplace apps.
-   View and revoke application-specific passwords. If your users use 2SV and need to sign in to apps or devices that don't accept verification codes, they need application-specific passwords (ASPs) to access those apps. From the user's security card you can view their apps and remove an app's access to data. Note: This doesn't stop the user from using the app in the future. To prevent that, you should set up a whitelist of allowed apps. We will discuss that later in the course.

## Notes

1\. Your users can view and manage their own account security settings from [myaccount.google.com](https://myaccount.google.com/ "myaccount.google.com").

## Help Center resources

-   [Manage user security settings](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2537800 "Manage user security settings")
-   [Security checklist for medium and large businesses (100+ users)](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7587183 "Security checklist for medium and large businesses (100+ users)")
