## Introduction

In an earlier exercise, you allowed your users to enroll in 2SV. In this exercise you will enforce 2SV for an OU as your company as decided to trial this feature. You will also sign in as one of your users and enroll into 2SV so that you can see the user experience.

## Scenario

The company has established a policy that all managers and executives must set up 2SV. Your job is to enforce 2SV for all managers and executives. In the first pilot you will allow any 2SV method to be applied. You may review this later and enforce the use of security keys as these are most secure.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Security icon.

3\. Click Basic settings, then click the Go to advanced settings to enforce 2-step verification link.

You can enforce 2SV now or choose a specific date. If you choose a date, users see reminders to enroll in 2SV when they sign in.

4\. Click on the Executive OU (left side of the page).

5\. Under 'Enforcement', choose *Turn on enforcement from date*, and use the date picker to choose an enforcement date. We suggest you select a date between 2 and 4 weeks from now. It's important to understand that users who have not enrolled by the enforcement date will be locked out of their accounts so give sufficient time for everyone to enroll. You can check enrollment status by viewing the [Enrollment report](https://admin.google.com/AdminHome#Reports:subtab=security "Enrollment report") in your admin console. The report can take 48 hours to update but you can always check an individual user's enrollment status from their user' security settings card on their profile.

6\. Ensure that 'Allow 2-step verification methods' is set to *Any, *then click SAVE*.*

At this point you would typically want to send instructions to your users advising them how to enroll. For the purposes of this exercise however, let's play the part of someone in the Executive OU and see how easy it is to enroll into 2SV.

#### Enroll into 2SV

Now that you have enabled enforcement, your users in the Executive OU will see an interstitial page each time they log in and receive reminder emails until they enroll. Let's verify that works and then enroll as one of the Executive. The following steps are optional if you do not have a phone available or if you prefer not to enroll a user using your phone number.

7\. Sign out and sign back in to G Suite at [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com") as *timothy.lee@yourdomain*. After you enter your password you will see a new prompt advising that your organization is enforcing 2SV. You now have the option of enrolling now or later. Click ENROLL. You will be asked to re-enter your password.

8\. You will now be asked to setup your phone. Enter your phone number into the box provided, choose how you want to receive codes (Text or Phone call) and click NEXT.

9\. At this point you will receive a call or a text from Google. Enter the code they provide into the 'code' field and click NEXT.

10\. You should see a confirmation that the code was accepted. To enroll, click TURN ON. You will be redirected to [myaccount.google.com](https://myaccount.google.com/ "myaccount.google.com") which advises that your phone has been verified. You also see a number of other secondary options listed which you can set up now or later.

-   Backup codes (print a set of codes to be used in the event you are using a security key and you lose it)
-   Google prompt (Get a Google prompt on your phone and just tap Yes to sign in)
-   Authenticator app (Use the Authenticator app to get free verification codes, even when your phone is offline)
-   Backup phone (Add a backup phone so you can still sign in if you lose your phone)
-   Security Key (A Security Key is a small physical device used for signing in. It plugs into your computer's USB port)

11\. Sign out and sign back in again at [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com") as *timothy.lee@yourdomain*. After you enter your password you should be prompted for a code which will be provided via text or a phone call. You may also be allowed to trust the device so you are not asked again. This feature is controlled from the advanced settings page, '2-step verification frequency' control.

Finally, let's return the admin console and view Timothy's profile.

12\. Sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

13\. Click the Users icon.

14\. Locate *Timothy Lee* in the user list and click on his name. On the security card you can see that 2-step verification is ON for Timothy.

15\. Click on the Security card and click 2-step verification. This is where you can get backup codes for Timothy in the event he cannot use his chosen 2SV method. You can also turn off 2SV for Timothy as the enforcement date has not yet been reached. Note that once the date has been reached you will not be able to turn it off. Try going back into the enforcement options for the Executive OU and enforce 2SV from now. Then go back to Timothy's security card and you will notice that the ON/OFF slider is grayed out.

## Notes

1\. When 2SV is enforced you can also give new users upto 6 months to enroll.

2\. From the advanced settings page you can also choose which verification methods to allow. If you are using only security keys you can also allow users who have have lost their key a grace period of upto one week where they can login using backup codes. These can be generated from the admin console.

## Help Center resources

-   [Deploy 2-Step Verification](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9176657 "Deploy 2-Step Verification")
-   [Turn on 2-Step Verification](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185839 "Turn on 2-Step Verification")
-   [Signing in with 2-Step Verification](https://support.google.com/accounts/topic/7189145 "Signing in with 2-Step Verification")
