## Introduction

As the G Suite administrator, you control user access to different types of Google services, including:

-   G Suite which includes enterprise versions of Gmail, Calendar, Drive and Docs, and more. These are the core services that have a Terms of Service agreement and are fully supported by G Suite Support.
-   Additional Google Services such as Blogger, Google Books, and more. These services are available to use in G Suite, but aren't covered by the Terms of Service agreement, nor supported by G Suite Support.
-   Marketplace apps. The G Suite Marketplace lets administrators browse for, purchase, and deploy integrated, business-oriented cloud applications. Warranties and support for these third-party apps are provided by the vendor, but not G Suite Support.

Administrators can turn services on or off for the entire organization or for a particular OU. In this exercise, you'll learn how to configure services to fit your company's business needs.

## Scenario

Your company has a strong focus on the confidentiality of their corporate information. As the administrator, you've been asked by the IT Manager to remove the ability to access some Google services to align better with their business policy.

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*As you know we are working on a very confidential widget at the moment. To prevent any information leaks I don't want anyone able to create a blog or site with their company account.*

*Thanks, *

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Apps icon.

3\. Click G Suite.

4\. Sites is a core service and core services are generally enabled for everyone by default. To turn off this service, locate *Sites* in the list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) icon at the end of the row. Then click Turn OFF for everyone.

5\. Click TURN OFF to confirm.

6\. Verify that the Sites service has been disabled. There are two ways to do this.

-   Click the *Sites* link to enter the service's settings page. Then click the URL below the service title. This option is available for most services in the admin console.
-   Open a new browser tab and go to *https://sites.google.com/a/yourdomain*

When you try to access the Sites service you should see a message advising that you do not have access to that service.

7\. You must now turn off Blogger as per Alex's request. Blogger is an additional service so from the admin console click Apps > Additional Google services.

8\. Locate *Blogger* in the list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) icon at the end of the row. Then click Turn OFF for everyone.

9\. Click TURN OFF to confirm.

You've successfully turned off the two services for your whole organization.

## Notes

1.  It can take up to 24 hours for a service ON/OFF change to take effect.
2.  Some services depend on other services. For example, Google+ depends on Calendar, Drive, and others. You can't turn on Google+ services, unless the other services are also on.
