## Introduction

In the previous exercise you disabled two services for your entire organization. In this exercise you will enable and disable a service at the OU level.

## Scenario

Your receive the following email from Alex.

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*Thanks for turning off those services for me. However, our CEO has advised me that they will want to create a site at some stage so can you enable the Sites service for our executive only?*

*Also, can you turn off Google+ for all contractors?*

*Thanks, *

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Apps icon.

3\. Click G Suite.

4\. Click on the Executive OU (left side of the page). You are now viewing the status for Apps in the Executive OU only. Note that Sites is OFF at the moment as it inherits it's setting from the top level organization.

5\. To turn Sites on for this OU only, locate *Sites* in the list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) icon at the end of the row. Then click ON (Override).

5\. Click TURN ON to confirm. The Sites service status should change to ON.

6\. Click another OU and/or the top level organization and verify that the Sites service remains OFF for other parts of the organization.

7\. Click on the Contractors OU.

8\. Locate *Google+* in the list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) icon at the end of the row. Then click OFF (Override).

9\. Click TURN OFF to confirm. You may need to confirm a second time. If prompted, click TURN GOOGLE+ OFF.

You've successfully turned a single service on and another one off at the OU level thus overriding inheritance from the higher level organization.

## Notes

1.  It can take up to 24 hours for a service ON/OFF change to take effect.
