## Introduction

In the previous exercise you learned how to enable and disable a service for an individual OU. This alignment between service status and organizational structure is very useful but what happens if you want to enable a service for some users in an OU but keep it disabled for others. In this exercise you will learn how to enable a service for specific users by leveraging a Google Group.

## Scenario

Your receive the following email from Alex.

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*Sam, our CEO would like to enable Sites for here Executive Assistant Ellie Gray. Can you please do that for her.*

*Thanks, *

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

1\. Open a new incognito browser window and go to [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com").

2\. Sign in as Ellie Gray *ellie.gray@yourdomain*

3\. Navigate to *https://sites.google.com/a/yourdomain *to confirm that Ellie does not have access to the Sites service.

4\. Sign out and sign back in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

You are now going to create a group and make Ellie a member. Then you will enable the Sites service for this group.

5\. Click the Groups icon.

6\. Click Create group and enter the following information:

-   Name: *Access Sites*
-   Description: *Users with access to the sites service regardless of their OU setting*
-   Group email: access.sites*@yourdomain*

7\. Set the 'Access type' to *Restricted* (Only members can post and view topics)

8\. Click CREATE GROUP.

9\. Click the Add members to Access Sites link and add *Ellie Gray* as a member.

Now we will enable Sites access for the group created above.

10\. Navigate to the Apps > G Suite.

11\. Click the Groups link on the left hand side of the page.

12\. Add *Access Sites *to the 'Search for a group' field. The right hand side of the screen will now show status for apps in Access Sites.

13\. Locate* Sites *in the list of services and hover over the row, then click TURN ON.

14\. Click TURN ON to confirm.

Verify that Ellie can now access the Sites service.

15\. Sign out as the domain administrator and sign back in as Ellie.

16\. Navigate to *https://sites.google.com/a/yourdomain.*

Even though Ellie's OU has Sites disabled, the sites page should load because she is a member of the access group with Sites enabled.

## Notes

1.  It can take up to 24 hours for a service ON/OFF change to take effect.
2.  Groups turn on user access to G Suite core services and Google additional services (such as App Maker). Groups can't turn off user access to a service that's turned on for an organization.
3.  It's a good practice to develop a naming convention for access groups such as the one create in this exercise, e.g. prefix the group name/email with Access or AX.
4.  An access group can contain users from any organizational unit or another group (nested groups).

## Help Center resources

-   [Control access to G Suite and Google services with groups](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9050643 "Control access to G Suite and Google services with groups")
