## Introduction

In the previous course we saw how an administrator can setup email alerts from the Reports area in the admin console. We also saw that G Suite has a set of predefined rules. Some of these predefined rules, when triggered will log events to the G Suite alert center.

As the administrator, you will use the alert center to view notifications about potential issues within your domain, and take action to resolve the issues and protect your organization from security threats. You can view a list of alerts, and then click any item in the list to view details about those alerts. You can also start an investigation from the alert center by linking directly to the security investigation tool. Using the investigation tool, you can then make adjustments to your admin console security settings if needed, or take other actions in response to the alert.

As you have a new domain it is very unlikely that you will have any alerts in your alert center but in this exercise you will learn how to navigate to the alert center and locate and identify rules that add alerts to the center.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. From the menu, click Security > Alert center. It is very unlikely that you will see any alerts listed here.

3\. Click the gear icon (Alert rules settings) on the top right of the page. This will take you to the list of predefined rules we saw in the previous course.

You may recall that you can only edit the actions part of a predefined rule; this means:

-   For rules that send alerts to the alert center you can enable/disable the alert. Disabling the alert also disables email notifications.
-   For rules that do not send alerts to the alert center, you can specify email recipients to be notified when the rule is triggered.

4\. Review the Alerts column. From here you can see which rules are logging events to the alert center. Note that not all rules will log to the alert center.

5\. Locate and click on the Leaked password rule, then click on the Actions card. Note that this rule can log to the alert center.

6\. Return the rules list, locate and click on the Calendar settings changed rule, then click on the Actions card. Note how this rule can only be configured to send an email notification when it is triggered.

## Notes

1.  Predefined rules can also be accessed from the reports area of the admin console by selecting Manage alerts, and then clicking the VIEW SYSTEM DEFINED RULES link.

## Help Center resources

-   [Alert center](https://support.google.com/a/topic/9105077 "Alert center")
