## Introduction

We will be covering Gmail's advanced settings in a later course in the series, but as an introduction, in this exercise you will set a couple of compliance policies for your organization.

## Scenario

G Suite provides a rich set of email compliance policies you can configure for an organization or the entire domain. The IT Manager has decided to follow Google's best practices to configure only a few compliance policies to start and possibly add more later.

-   The company will continue to use their compliance footer which will be appended to the end of all email message leaving the company, but not for internal messages.
-   The company also wants to prevent their users from receiving attachments that are video, multimedia and music from external users. G Suite can remove these attachments, yet deliver the message. For now, these file attachments can be sent internally between employees. They may revisit this policy later.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Scroll down and click Advanced settings.

4\. Scroll down to the 'Compliance' section and hover over the 'Append footer' row, then click CONFIGURE. The 'Append footer' dialog box displays.

5\. Enter a short description that will appear within the setting's summary, such as *Company compliance footer*.

6\. Enter (or copy and paste) the compliance footer as follows into the 'For all outbound email messages, append the following footer' field:

*This message (and any associated files) may contain confidential and/or privileged information. If you are not the intended recipient or authorized to receive this for the intended recipient, you must not use, copy, disclose or take any action based on this message or any information herein. If you have received this message in error, please advise the sender immediately by sending a reply email and delete this message. Thank you for your cooperation.*

7\. Optionally modify the text by changing the font size and style.

8\. Click ADD SETTING.

9\. Click SAVE.

You will now configure a compliance rule to strip video, multimedia and music attachments from all inbound messages.

10\. Scroll down and hover over the 'Attachment compliance' row, then click CONFIGURE. The 'Attachment compliance' dialog box displays.

11\. Enter a short description that will appear within the setting's summary, such as *Remove video and music attachments*.

12\. In the 'Email messages to affect' section, check the *Inbound* box.

13\. Under 'Add expressions that describe the content you want to search for in each message', click ADD, then select *Video and multimedia* and *Music and sound* as the type of attachments.

14\. Click SAVE.

15\. In the 'If the above expressions match, do the following' section, ensure *Modify message* is selected and check the *Remove attachments from message *box. Note how you can optionally append a message to notify recipients that attachments have been removed.

16\. Click ADD SETTING.

17\. Click SAVE.

18\. Verify the above policies:

-   Send an email from your training account to your personal email. Does it include the compliance footer?

-   Reply to the email and attach a video or music file. Does the training account user receive the message with the attachment?

## Help Center resources

-   [Configure outbound messages with footer text](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2364576 "Configure outbound messages with footer text")
-   [Set up rules for attachment compliance](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2364580 "Set up rules for attachment compliance")
