## Introduction

Gmail will always display warnings, and move messages known to be untrustworthy to spam. In addition however as the G Suite administrator Gmail provides additional controls which allow you to determine actions taken when certain threats are found. In this exercise we will explore those controls.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Click Safety.

This will take you to the Safety page which is divided into three sections:

-   Attachments: Policies to protect against malware.
-   Links and external images: Prevent email phishing attacks.
-   Spoofing and authentication: Reduce phishing due to spoofing and unauthenticated emails.

4\. Click on the Attachments card. From here you can see the protections available to you and you can enable/disable them as required. You can also see the default action when a setting is enabled.

5\. If it is not already enabled, check 'Protect against encrypted attachments from untrusted senders'. Now you can choose an action to take on messages that trigger this policy. You can:

-   Keep email in inbox and show warning (default)
-   Move email to spam
-   Quarantine

If you choose to quarantine the message you will be able to select which quarantine to use. We will discuss email quarantine later in this course.

6\. Choose a desired option and click SAVE.

Explore the other settings in this section and also click on each of the other two cards and review the settings that are available. Note that there are links on this page which take you to the security dashboard from where you can view affected emails. See [About the security dashboard](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7492330 "About the security dashboard") for more details. In each section there is also an option which allows you to opt-in to any new recommendations automatically. We recommend you enable these settings to offer best protection for your users.

## Notes

1\. These advanced security features work independently of other spam settings you might have previously turned on. For example, even if you've listed a domain as a safe sender in spam settings, the enhanced security features are still applied.

2\. When you select the Quarantine option for any of the advanced security settings, the quarantine you select applies only to incoming messages. This is true even if the quarantine you select specifies actions to take on outgoing messages.
