In the previous lesson we saw how you can use compliance settings to manage how specific messages are routed based upon specific message content. G Suite also provides routing controls that allow you to determine how email for your organization is routed and stored. For example, you may want:

-   Gmail to scan your inbound mail for spam and compliance purposes, but store the mail on your external mail server.
-   Some users to receive mail in Gmail inboxes, and others to access mail from your local server (split delivery)

You use routing settings to configure inbound, outbound, and internal delivery options, such as dual delivery and split delivery.

Let's start by defining some important terms.

Direct delivery: This is the default setting and applies where your organization has all of it's users on G Suite. All messages are delivered directly to the Gmail inbox. If your environment is 100% G Suite you should not need to make changes to your mail routing settings in G Suite, however it is very useful to understand the options available to you as the administrator, so you should walk through this lesson and read the Help Center resources provided.

Split Delivery: Incoming messages are routed to either the Gmail inbox or another mail system. This method works well if some of your users use Gmail, and others use a different mail system. This is commonly used during a migration (or deployment) to G Suite.

Dual Delivery: This is used where you want to route messages to the Gmail inbox and another system. With dual delivery, incoming mail is delivered to a primary mail server first. The primary server delivers each message to the inboxes associated with it, then forwards all messages to a secondary mail server. The secondary server delivers the messages to the secondary server inboxes. This method is useful if you are trialling G Suite for a small number of users but you wish your existing mail system to retain a copy of all messages.

Dual and split delivery methods are both commonly used during a G Suite deployment where users are migrating from a legacy system to G Suite. Which one(s) are used, when and how it is implemented does depend greatly on the existing environment and needs of the customer.

In this lesson you will learn how to configure split delivery in G Suite and be introduced to some of the other routing controls available.
