## Introduction

Welcome to the fourth and final course in the G Suite Administration specialization - G Suite Mail Management.

In this course you will examine your domain's Domain Name System (DNS) records and implement DNS email security measures to protect against others using your domain for spoofing and phishing attacks.

You will learn about Gmail's email safety features that are designed to protect users from inbound phishing and harmful software (malware). You will be introduced to the spam and phishing prevention measures that you can implement in the admin console such as email whitelists and blocked sender lists.

You will configure email compliance which allows you to examine messages for specific content, objectionable content or attachments and then take actions on messages that do not comply with your organizational policies. You will also be introduced to the predefined Data Loss Prevention templates that can be used as part of a compliance policy.

Finally you will be introduced to mail routing controls provided in G Suite. You will gain an understanding of the mail routing options such as split and dual delivery and know when to use them.

In order to pass the quizzes, reading the provided help center links is advised.

## Prerequisites

This course is the final course in the G Suite Administration specialization. You should complete the 'Introduction to G Suite', 'Managing G Suite', and 'G Suite Security' courses before taking this course.

If you have completed the previous courses but no longer have your trial domain, you should complete the exercise that immediately follows this reading before moving onto the next lesson. If your trial domain is still valid you can go straight to [Introduction to DNS Records](https://www.coursera.org/learn/g-suite-mail-management/supplement/gsc64/introduction-to-dns-records "Introduction to DNS Records").
