## Introduction

The G Suite security center brings together security analytics, actionable insights and best practice recommendations from Google to empower you to protect your organization, data and users. The security center is comprised of the following:

-   Security dashboard reports
-   Security health page
-   Investigation tool

## Scenario

In this exercise, you'll navigate the security center to view and understand your security dashboard and security health recommendations. You will also explore the investigation tool. As you have a new domain there will be little or no security related content in your logs but it is important to understand how the security center works so we will walk through each component.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

#### Security dashboard

The security dashboard provides an overview of data from several security center reports.

2\. Click the Security icon, and click Dashboard. From here, you will see a number of widgets, each providing a summary of key security metrics for:

-   External file sharing activity.
-   Message activity including: number of messages authenticated or encrypted, spam statistics, suspicious attachments and spoofing.
-   Device events such as failed login attempts, compromised device events and suspicious activity.
-   OAuth grant activity - these refer to your user's granting access to third party apps and sites to their data.

You can filter by domain and date and you can view up to 180 days of data.

3\. Locate the 'Spam Filter - All' widget, and click VIEW REPORT. This will open the full report where you will see a chart at the top and a table beneath.

The chart shows messages that have been delivered to the user's inbox or marked as spam and at the top of the page you can apply filters to the chart such as traffic source (internal, external) and classification (spam, fishing, malware, etc..). You can also select a date range.

Hover over the chart and click on any date. Now you will see the table data populate below with data from the selected date and in that table you can pivot on message metadata such as subject, recipient and sender.

You can also export the data to a Google Sheet.

4\. Return the dashboard, locate the 'Authentication' widget, and click VIEW REPORT. Notice how the filters and table metadata options have changed as each report has its own set of properties.

See [About the security dashboard](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7492330 "About the security dashboard") for a description of all the reports available in the dashboard.

#### Security health page

The security health page provides an overview of your security-related settings in the admin console. You should monitor your organization's security health so you can stay ahead of potential threats by examining security analytics and flagging threats.

5\. Return to the Security settings page and click Security health. Each entry on this page represents a security related setting in the admin console.

-   On the left you will see the name of the setting together with the navigation path in the admin console. For example: 'Calendar sharing policy' - 'Apps > G Suite > Settings for Calendar'.
-   Status is shown in the center (for example, enabled/disabled plus OU counts)
-   On the right there are a number of icons. Each setting is either healthy or there is a recommendation. Click on the icon to see the recommendation details.

See [Get started with the security health page](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7491656 "Get started with the security health page") for more details.

#### Security investigation tool

The security investigation tool is used to identify, triage, and take action on security and privacy issues in your organization.

6\. Return to the Security settings page and click Investigation tool. This will take you to a page where you can build a query to search across device, mail, drive, and user events and logs. Let's build a simple search.

7\. Select the 'Data source' of *Users* and click ADD CONDITION.

8\. Select the 'Condition' of *Enrolled in 2SV* and set the value to *False*, then click SEARCH. You should see all users who are not enrolled in 2SV in the search results.

From here you can take actions on the results. In this case the actions are specific to Users but the actions will vary depending upon the type of search you are performing.

9\. Hover over any user in the list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) icon to the right of the username, then click Actions. From here you can copy the value, or restore or suspend the user.

You can also pivot to another view for the individual user. Pivoting allows you to add a new search to the tool using information from one set of results to perform a new search.

10\. Hover over any user in the list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) icon to the right of the username, then click Pivot to > Gmail messages > Recipient. This will add a new search below the current search.

11\. Click SEARCH to view all messages received by this user.

12\. Hover over any message in the results set and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) icon to the right of the Message ID, then click Actions. From here you have message related actions: Delete message, Mark message as phishing, Mark message as spam, Send message to inbox, Send message to quarantine, View header and View message. Note, if you want to view the actual message you will be asked to provide justification. See [View Gmail message content](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9300435 "View Gmail message content").

The investigation tool also allows you to do the following:

-   Select multiple results and perform actions in bulk. Check the box to the left of a couple of search results. You will see an ACTIONS button appear at the top of the results. Click the button to see what actions are allowed.
-   Export results to a Google sheet.
-   Add a widget to the security dashboard using the results of your investigation. This feature is not available for all data sources.

See [About the security investigation tool](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7575955 "About the security investigation tool") for more details.

## Help Center resources

-   [Security center](https://support.google.com/a/topic/7492529 "Security center")
