## Introduction

As an administrator you can monitor your users' account settings and exposure to security risks by opening the accounts activity report.

The accounts activity report gives you a consolidated view of user status and account activity, where you can access all data from the user account status, admin status, and 2-step verification enrollment reports.

See [Account activity reports](https://support.google.com/a/answer/4580176 "Account activity reports") and the [Security checklist for medium and large businesses](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7587183 "Security checklist for medium and large businesses") to learn more about security best practices. In this exercise, you'll view and customize an accounts activity report for your organization. Note though that because you just set up your domain, there will be limited data or no data available to view in your report.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Reports icon.

3\. Click Account activity (this link can be found under the Users category on the left).

There are a set of icons on the top right of the page from where you can download the data, choose which columns to display and show/hide the filter pane.

4\. Click the Select columns icon (three vertical bars) and then choose which columns you want to display. Clicking on a column will change the chart above to display a representation of that column's data.

In an earlier exercise you enrolled one of your users into 2SV. As mentioned previously it can take up to 48 hours for these reports to reflect changes made so if you check the status in the report for that user and it shows them as not being enrolled, this is normal.

On the left you will see the filters pane. From here you can filter by date, OU (or user), and column data.

5\. Add an OU filter and check that the report now only shows used from that OU.

6\. Once you have the information in the report that you desire, use the download icon on the top right of the page to either download the report or export it to a Google Sheet.
