## Introduction

In addition to scheduling meetings in Google Calendar, G Suite users in your organization can manage shared resources. The most common example of a resource is a meeting room. Other examples might include projectors, company fleet cars, or any other resource people might schedule a time to use.

It's recommended that you define your resources using a structured format that includes information about the resource location, capacity, or equipment. Calendar uses this data to give more room and resource details, helping your users choose the best resource for their needs. Structured resource naming will give your users the best experience in Google Calendar so it is worth making an effort when adding resources to your organization.

Setting up your resources involves three steps. First you will add your building information, then you will add any features, e.g: video, audio, and finally you will add the resources themselves.

Buildings, features and resources are created from the admin console. They can also be uploaded in bulk via a CSV file or created using one of the resources methods available in the [Admin SDK Directory API](https://developers.google.com/admin-sdk/directory/v1/reference/resources/buildings "Admin SDK Directory API").

In the following exercise you will add two calendar resources after first defining your building and adding some common features that might be found in each resource.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set up buildings, features, and other resources](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1033925 "Set up buildings, features, and other resources")
