## Introduction

In this exercise you will create two structured calendar resources for your main building. You will also define some features that can be applied to each resource. Read through the scenario and directions below in order to practice creating admin managed groups.

## Scenario

You receive this mail from the IT Manager, Alex:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*We would like to allow our users to book a couple of our meeting rooms directly from Google Calendar. Can you please add the main boardroom, and the top floor conference room information to our calendar system.*

*Thanks,*

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

In the following instructions, let's assume that you have gathered details about the facilities (features) available in each of two rooms. The first step is to add your building details.

#### Add building

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Buildings and resources icon.

3\. Click EDIT RESOURCES.

4\. Click ADD BUILDING.

5\. Click on the yellow circle with the + sign to add a new building. Complete the dialog as follows:

-   Name: *Head Office*
-   Description: *Main work location*
-   Floors: *1,2,3,4*
-   Address: *Enter your address*

6\. Click ADD BUILDING.

Note: The Building ID is used to associate a resource with a particular building which is why you must define your buildings first.

#### Add features

7\. In the navigation at the top of the page, switch the view from *Buildings* to *Resources*.

8\. Click the 'Manage resource features' icon (three horizontal lines with a pencil icon over the bottom line) which is located in the top right corner of the Resources list.

9\. Click ADD FEATURE and enter the following details:

-   Feature name: *Refreshments*
-   Feature type: *Other*

10\. Click SAVE.

11\. Click ADD FEATURE and enter the following details:

-   Feature name: *Google Meet Hardware*
-   Feature type: *Video conferencing*

12\. Click CLOSE.

Our features are added so it is time to add our resources.

#### Add resources

13\. Click on the yellow circle with the + sign to add a new resource. Complete the dialog as follows:

-   Category: *Meeting space* (this should be the default)
-   Type: *Meeting room*
-   Building: *Head Office* (this should be the only entry available as you have only added one building)
-   Floor: *4*
-   Floor section: This indicates where on the floor the room is located. It's optional but enter *East*.
-   Resource name: *Conference room*
-   Capacity: *10*
-   Features: Select *Google Meet Hardware*
-   User visible description: *Extension 326 *(Free-form description of the room that is visible to users in the room details)

14\. Click ADD RESOURCE.

15\. Click on the yellow circle with the + sign. Now add your second resource as follows:

-   Category: *Meeting space* (this should be the default)
-   Type: *Meeting room*
-   Building: *Head Office* (this should be the only entry available as you have only added one building)
-   Floor: *2*
-   Floor section: This indicates where on the floor the room is located. It's optional but enter *West*.
-   Resource name: *Boardroom*
-   Capacity: *20*
-   Features: Select *Google Meet Hardware* and* Refreshments*
-   User visible description: *Extension 316 *(Free-form description of the room that is visible to users in the room details)

16\. Click ADD RESOURCE.

Congratulations, you have just added two structured calendar resources to your G Suite account.

#### Explore the settings

17\. From the list of resources, click on the Conference room row to open the resource details. On the left hand side you will see an email address and an auto-generated resource name in the following format:

-   Resource email: yourdomain_1993ce917vkushojkrbuv2ckpu2t66gb68o34dpk64q3icph70@resource.calendar.google.com
-   Auto-generated resource name: *Head Office-4-East-Conference room (10) [Google Meet Hardware]*

18\. Open your Google Calendar and click the + button to the right 'Other calendars' and select Browse resources. You should now see the two resources listed. Check each of them to subscribe. The two resources should now appear in your list of calendars.

19\. Create a test event and start typing *Head office* into the 'Guests' field. You should see the two resources listed in autocomplete for selection.

## Notes

1.  Resources may not show immediately in Google Calendar. Also, popup card information as presented in the Help Center article [Impact of using structured resources](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7540850 "Impact of using structured resources") may also take some time to propagate.
2.  if you are unable to see the resources in Google Calendar, try again later or try clicking the + button to the right of 'Other calendars', then select Subscribe to calendar. Then paste the resource email address into the 'Add calendar' field.
3.  Resource calendar settings such as sharing settings are managed from Google Calendar.
