## Introduction

Split delivery is where messages are routed to multiple mail systems based upon certain conditions that you specify. In G Suite split delivery is implemented through a combination of a host (or route) and a routing settings entry. In this exercise you will learn how to configure split delivery for a fictitious organization who is deploying G Suite in phases.

## Scenario

Until now this course has assumed that you are working in a 100% G Suite environment. However many customers have existing domains and mail systems and they need to migrate data and users from the legacy platform to the cloud as part of the G Suite deployment.

Unless all user can be moved at once it is inevitable that some users will be on G Suite and others will remain on the legacy platform during different stages of the project. However, MX records for your domain can only point to one place; G Suite or legacy servers, so we need a way to ensure that mail can be correctly routed depending upon the user's location. For this we can use split delivery.

Consider the following. You are deploying G Suite for your organization and migrating 1000 users in three phases:

-   Core IT (50 users)

-   Early Adopters (150 users)

-   Final Go-Live (remaining 800 uses)

At the start of the project, your MX records point to your legacy mail servers so you used dual delivery to ensure that mail was forwarded out to the small number of Core IT users who were migrated in the first phase. Early adopters followed and you decided to keep dual delivery in place for these users also.

Prior to the final phase you will switch your MX records to Google so all mail is routed to G Suite. Once that is done you will use split delivery to ensure that users who have not yet migrated (and do not yet have G Suite accounts) will continue to receive their email on the legacy platform.

## Directions

#### Create a host for your legacy mail platform

Before you create a routing setting you must add the details of your legacy server to the admin console. This is done by adding a new host (also known as a route).

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Scroll down and click Advanced settings.

4\. Click on the Hosts tab.

5\. Click ADD ROUTE.

6\. Enter the 'Name' of *Legacy Mail Platform.*

This is where you enter the legacy mail server details. You must specify a public hostname or IP address. For more complex environments, you can also add a primary and secondary configuration, each of which can consist of multiple mail servers. To keep things simple let's assume you only have one mail server.

7\. In the 'Specify email server' section, enter the hostname *my.legacyserver.com*. (This is just a test name and doesn't actually exist)

8\. Click SAVE.

#### Create the routing setting

You have defined the host to route to, so now you can define the routing setting.

9\. Click the General Settings tab.

10\. Scroll down to the 'Routing' section and hover over the 'Routing' row, then click CONFIGURE. The 'Routing' dialog box displays.

11\. In the 'Email messages to affect' section, check the *Inbound *and* Internal - receiving *boxes.

12\. Scroll down and in the section 'For the above type of messages, do the following', set the action to *Modify message.*

13\. Scroll down and check the *Change route* box, and change *Normal routing* to *Legacy Mail Platform*.

14\. Scroll down and click the Show options link.

15\. In 'Account types to affect', uncheck *Users* and check the *Unrecognized / Catch-all* box.

16\. Click ADD SETTING and click SAVE.

You have now successfully configured split delivery. Any inbound (and internal - receiving mail) sent to a non-recognized user will be rerouted to the legacy mail server which can then deliver it to users who have not yet switched to G Suite. As you create G Suite accounts for those users, they will become recognized and mail will be delivered to their Gmail inbox.

## Help Center resources

-   [Add mail routes for advanced Gmail delivery](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2614757 "Add mail routes for advanced Gmail delivery")
-   [Email routing and delivery](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2685650 "Email routing and delivery")
