In addition to custom routing options, G Suite offers a number of other routing controls that are designed for specific purposes. If your organization is using G Suite services for everything, then it is unlikely that you will ever need to configure these controls, but it is still useful to understand what is available and the key purpose of each. These additional mail routing controls are discussed briefly below.

## Outbound gateway

An outbound mail gateway server processes email messages before they're delivered. Typically, these servers are used for archiving or spam filtering. The gateway server should be configured to accept and forward mail from G Suite mail IPs only to prevent spammers from using it as an open relay. It's also important that your SPF record contains the gateway address. DKIM will work but only if the gateway does not modify the message in any way.

An outbound gateway can also be defined using a routing setting which is preferred as routing settings offer much more flexibility over outbound gateway setting. The outbound gateway setting applies to everyone in the organization where as routing settings can be applied at the OU level. Routing settings can also be configured to use specific envelope filters and address lists. For example, you may only want to archive mail from your legal department. If this is the requirement you would use a routing setting to capture all outbound mail from the legal department only and route that via the gateway.

## Recipient address map

This feature is also known as a virtual user table. It allows the administrator to reroute a message from one address to another address. Each entry in the address map consists of two email addresses; the original intended address and the address where the message should be routed to. For example:

*john@yourdomain, johnny@yourdomain*

This is a basic routing concept but by using this setting, you don't need to create individual routing settings for each address mapping. G Suite supports upto 5000 entries in the map and a single recipient can map to a maximum of 12 other addresses. There is also an option to route the message to the original intended recipient.

## Inbound email journal acceptance to Vault

This feature allows you to use Google Vault to store messages from another mail platform.

## Third party email archiving

This feature allows Gmail content to be archived in a third party archive system.

## Non-Gmail mailbox

This setting is only for users whose mailboxes are located on an on-premise/non-Gmail mail server. It allows you to use Gmail's spam filtering and other G Suite features such as content compliance and mail routing but messages are delivered to the users external inbox. You must not turn this feature on for Gmail users as they will lose access to their Gmail inbox.

## SMTP Relay service

If your organization uses a non-Gmail mail service, you can configure the SMTP Relay service to route outgoing mail through Google. You can use this setting to filter messages for spam and viruses before they reach external contacts. You can also apply G Suite email security and advanced Gmail settings to outgoing messages.

Don't confuse this with the Outbound gateway setting described above. In that setting, your users are using Gmail and you want to route all outbound mail through another SMTP server defined by the outbound gateway setting. Using the SMTP relay service, Google becomes the outbound gateway for your non-Gmail mail users.

## Alternate secure route

You can use this setting to determine the route a message must take if it requires secure transport. For example, if you use a third-party encryption service, you can use the alternate secure route setting to route otherwise insecure traffic to it.
