## Introduction

Let's continue learning about SSO and set it up for managed Google accounts using a third party IdP.

The steps listed below describe how to set up SSO with a third party provider. You are not expected to complete this exercise but please read through the instructions and explore the Help Center resources in order to understand how to set up SSO using a third party IdP.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Security icon, scroll down and click on Set up single sign-on (SSO) section. The first part of this section relates to where you are using Google as the IdP and was covered in the previous exercise. The second part is relevant if you are using a third party IdP.

3\. Check the *Setup SSO with third party identity provider* box.

4\. Complete the following URLs to your third-party Identity Provider (IdP). All URLs entered must use HTTPS:

-   Sign-in page URL: The page where users sign in to your system and to Google

-   Sign-out page URL: The page where users are redirected to after signing off

#### Change password URL

If you specify a 'Change password URL', it's important to note that all users, other than super administrators, who try to change their password in your organization will be directed to the URL you specify. This setting applies even if you do not enable SSO. Also, network masks do not apply.

if you are using G Suite Password Sync (GSPS) to [Sync password data with Active Directory](https://support.google.com/a/topic/2611858 "Sync password data with Active Directory") you can use Google Sites to create an internal webpage that instructs users to change their Microsoft Windows password instead of their Google password and enter the URL to that page into this field.

5\. Create and upload the [SAML key and verification certificate](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2611842 "SAML key and verification certificate"). Note: The certificate file you upload must be an x.509 certificate with an embedded public key. The public key must exist so Google can verify sign-in requests by your users. Tip:Use OpenSSL to generate your certificate and keys.

6\. Add your 'Network masks'. These determine which addresses will be affected by single sign-on. If no masks are specified, SSO functionality will be applied to the entire network. See [Network Mapping results](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6369487 "Network Mapping results") for more details.

7\. Click SAVE.

## Notes

1\. When you are using a third party IdP the 'Require password change' option on your user's profiles is disabled.

2\. Only Chrome can verify that the certificate you upload is valid. Other browsers do not.

3\. Administrators signing into G Suite at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/ "admin.google.com") are not redirected to the SSO sign in page whether they are within or outside of a network mask. 

## Help Center resources

-   [Set up SSO using 3rd party IdPs](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60224 "Set up SSO using 3rd party IdPs")
