## Introduction

A directory service (or server) is typically used to check and grant access to a system's resources. In its basic form, a directory can be a simple list of usernames. Over time, many proprietary directories evolved to support different systems and organizations found themselves managing multiple directories. For larger organizations in particular this can be time consuming and prone to error.

Sharing directory information across multiple systems greatly simplifies maintenance. LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) is a commonly used method to share and maintain distributed directory information services, and systems that support LDAP can quickly be integrated into a unified directory.

G Suite includes the Secure LDAP service which provides a secure way to connect your LDAP-based applications and services to G Suite. The service supports any LDAP compliant application regardless of the hosting location, which can be on-premise, private or public cloud.

Using Secure LDAP, you can use your Google directory as an LDAP server for authentication, authorization, and directory lookups. Secure LDAP allows you to reduce the traditional directory server footprint where your applications may ordinarily point to several directory servers by pointing all of these apps only to Secure LDAP.

Setting up a Secure LDAP connection involves two main steps:

1.  Create and configure the LDAP client in your admin console.
2.  Configure your LDAP client to connect to the secure LDAP service.

It is not possible to provide an LDAP client to be used as part of this training so we will focus on Step 1 only. There are many different LDAP clients and configuration requirements vary considerably from one client to another. See [Connect LDAP clients to the Secure LDAP service](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9089736 "Connect LDAP clients to the Secure LDAP service") for Step 2 instructions for many common LDAP clients.

Watch the [video](https://www.coursera.org/lecture/g-suite-security/secure-ldap-demonstration-1ah17) that follows and then take the exercise in which you will complete Step 1 above.

## Help Center resources

-   [About the Secure LDAP service](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9048516 "About the Secure LDAP service")
-   [Add and connect new LDAP clients](https://support.google.com/a/topic/9173976 "Add and connect new LDAP clients")
