## Introduction

In this exercise, you will create two OUs and move your users into the appropriate OU based upon their role in the company.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. From the menu (top left) select Directory > Organizational units.

3\. Click on the yellow circle with the + sign to create a new OU.

4\. Give the OU the name of *Executive *and click CREATE.

5\. Create another OU called *Employees*.

6\. Navigate to your users list. You should see the two new OUs on the left hand side beneath the top level organization.

7\. Select *Alex*, *Lars*, *Samantha*, and *Timothy* by checking the box to the left of their name in the user list.

8\. Click More > Change Organizational unit, and select Executive. Then click CONTINUE.

9\. Click CHANGE to confirm the move.

10\. Repeat Steps 7 - 9 but this time move *Ellie*, *Jon*, *Tom*, and *Will* to the *Employees* OU.

11\. Review the options in the column to the left of your user list. Here you can see all users and you can now refine (or filter) the users by OU. Practice filtering by checking Users from selected organizational units and picking from the list below to refine the list. Notice how you can pick one or many OUs.

## Notes

1.  Changes can take 24 hours to propagate to all users.

## Help Center resources

-   [Add an organizational unit](https://support.google.com/a/answer/182537 "Add an organizational unit")
-   [Modify the organizational structure](https://support.google.com/a/answer/182538 "Modify the organizational structure")
-   [Move users to an organizational unit](https://support.google.com/a/answer/182449 "Move users to an organizational unit")
