## Introduction

In the previous exercise you created two OUs beneath your top level organization. One benefit of applying an organizational structure like this is that you can now enable/disable services at an OU level. Settings at one level are normally inherited by any child OUs but it is also possible to override inheritance at the OU level providing for greater flexibility.

Read through the scenario, and then go through the steps to complete the exercise!

## Scenario

You receive this email from the CEO:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*Alex advised me of a Google service called Takeout which allows users to export their data from G Suite. Is it possible to enable this service for our executives only but restrict access to our employees? Thanks*

*Regards,*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

Google Takeout is an additional Google service which is enabled by default for all users in the organization so you must disable the service for all users in the Employees OU.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. From the menu (top left) select Apps > Additional Google services.

3\. On the left hand side click the Employees OU.

4\. Scroll down the list of services. Hover over 'Google Takeout' and click on the 3 dots icon at the end of the row. Then click OFF (Override).

5\. Click TURN OFF to confirm the change. Users in the Employees OU will now lose access to Google Takeout. Users in the root organization and the Executive OU can still use this service.

## Notes

1.  Changes can take 24 hours to propagate to all users.

## Help Center resources

-   [Control who can access G Suite and Google services](https://support.google.com/a/answer/182442 "Control who can access G Suite and Google services")
