## Introduction

Now that you've configured your mobile device policies, we'll walk through the steps that your users, and you, as the administrator for your organization, take to enroll mobile devices into your domain.

This exercise is optional. Only complete the exercise if you are comfortable adding a new account and work profile to your personal mobile device. If you have any concerns DO NOT complete this exercise but do read the process. Remember, if you do choose to add your own device, you will need to consider removing the account from your phone or from your domain after you've finished this training.

Start by ensuring you have read [Get started with Google Mobile Management](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7396025 "Get started with Google Mobile Management")

Now that you have configured mobile device management for your organization you will need to inform your users that hey can add their corporate Google account to their personal device. After the user has enrolled you will be able to see their device in the admin console.

## Directions

The process of adding a new account and removing the account/work profile does vary from device to device and across different versions of Android so it is not possible to provide detailed steps for every device. However, in general you will work through the following steps:

1\. From your phone go to Settings > Accounts

2\. Click Add Account > Google

3\. Sign in with your training credentials. You may need to accept Google's Terms of Service at this point.

4\. Install the Google Apps Device Policy app.

5\. Create the work profile. If your organization requires that devices must be approved, you will be advised that the device is pending approval.

#### Approving a device

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Device management icon.

3\. Click the Device Approvals link on the left. From here you can see any devices pending approval.

4\. To approve a device, locate it in the list and hover over it, then click the ellipses (three vertical dots) at the end of the row and click APPROVE DEVICE. The user will receive a notification once the device is approved and they can then start to use their work profile alongside their personal account.

## Help Center resources

The exercises here covered the use of personal devices at work. Read the article below to find out more about managing company-owned devices from the admin console.

-   [Inventory company-owned devices](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7129612 "Inventory company-owned devices")
