Introduction

In this exercise, you will create an admin role that have a custom set of privileges.

Scenario

You receive a request from the Human Resources Manager, Lars Ericsson.

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*I would like to understand more about how our users are interacting with G Suite. That way I can create a customized training plan for the company. Is there any way I can run reports that track apps usage and user behaviors?*

*Regards, Lars Ericsson*

You decide that, rather than giving him a pre-built role with privileges he doesn't need, it's best to create a custom role. That way you can delegate the ability to run reports, but not give Lars any other administrator privileges.

Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Admin roles icon.

3\. Click CREATE A NEW ROLE.

4\. Enter a name for the role, e.g: *Reporting Role*, optionally enter a description, and click CREATE.

5\. In the Privileges tab, you can select the privileges you want users to have with this role. You want this custom role to have reporting privileges only so check the Reports box and click SAVE.

6\. In the previous exercise you assigned the Super Admin role directly to Alex Bell by updating his user profile but you can also assign roles from the Admin roles page. Click Reporting Role in the 'User Created Roles' list.

7\. Click ASSIGN ADMINS (on the Admins tab) and add *Lars Ericsson* into the Administrators field. Then click CONFIRM ASSIGNMENT.

8\. Return the user list and locate *Lars* in the list, then open his profile. You can see here that he has been assigned the new role.

Congratulations! You've now built and assigned a custom administrator role to one of your users, which allows you to better delegate administrator tasks in your domain.

Notes

1.  You can assign more than one administrator role to a user. Creating multiple roles with fewer privileges is, therefore, more versatile than one role with many privileges. If a user handles multiple tasks, just assign multiple roles.
2.  Assigning a custom role to a user grants them access to the Admin console. The privileges determine which dashboard controls are in their console, what information the user can access, and which management tasks they can perform. Learn more about[ administrator privilege definitions](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1219251).

Help Center resources

-   [Create custom administrator roles](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2406043 "Create custom administrator roles")
