## Introduction

As the administrator you can transfer all documents owned by one user to the another user in your organization.

There are three user types in Google Drive: owner, editor, and viewer. Documents can have many editors and viewers, but only one owner at a time.

By default, the creator of a document is also the owner, but document ownership can be transferred to another user. After the transfer, the original owner retains editing privileges of the documents unless that user is deleted or their edit permissions are removed.

We've already seen that transferring ownership of a user's documents can be useful when the user leaves the organization. When you delete a user from the admin console you are given the option to transfer files, calendar and Google+ pages to a new user. And it's good practice to transfer ownership to avoid losing important documents.

Note that documents owned by a deleted user can't be transferred. However, if the user was deleted less than 20 days ago an admin can restore the user's documents and then transfer those documents.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from Sam Morse:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*My executive assistant, Ellie, is responsible for maintaining many of my important documents. Is there a way that I can make her the owner so that she has total control over them, while still allowing me to make changes?*

*Regards,*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Drive and Docs service.

3\. Click Transfer ownership

4\. Enter *samantha.morse* into the 'From' field and *ellie.gray *into the 'To' field.

5\. Click TRANSFER FILES. You should now see a prompt advising that you, the old owner and the new owner will receive and email upon completion of the transfer. Click OK.

6\. Open your inbox and verify that you have received a confirmation email.

## Notes

1\. It's also possible to transfer ownership of documents using the [Drive API](https://developers.google.com/drive/ "Drive API").

## Help Center resources

-   [Restore a deleted user's Drive files](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2993112 "Restore a deleted user's Drive files")
-   [Transfer Drive files to a new owner](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1247799 "Transfer Drive files to a new owner")
