## Introduction

There are two ways to access Drive files and keep them in sync on all your devices.

-   Drive File Stream which is best for most organizations. This application lets you stream My Drive and shared drive files directly from the cloud. You can also make Drive files available for offline access.

-   Backup and Sync which is Google's consumer sync client that organizations can use, too. With Backup and Sync, all your Drive content is stored locally.

In this exercise, you will enable the use of Drive File Stream and allow users to install the software themselves.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Drive and Docs service.

3\. Click Features and Applications.

4\. Click Drive File Stream to edit the settings.

5\. Check the 'Allow Drive File Stream in your organization' and 'Show Drive File Stream download link' boxes. The second box allows users to install Drive File Stream from the Settings menu in Drive.

6\. Click SAVE if you made changes above.

7\. Go to [drive.google.com](https://drive.google.com/ "drive.google.com") and click the Settings menu (the gear icon). Verify that there is a 'Get Drive File Stream' option. Note: If you made changes in Step 5 you may need to wait some time for the link to appear.

## Notes

1 You can allow Drive File Stream and Backup and Sync for your users. If a user runs Drive File Stream at the same time as Backup and Sync, the user is prompted to stop syncing My Drive in Backup and Sync. If they agree, they will now access My Drive only with Drive File Stream which frees up disk space and improves performance. If they decline they continue to use both products which nullifies disk space savings and potentially leads to confusion.

2\. If you enable the download links for both tools, only the Drive File Stream link is presented.

## Help Center resources

-   [Choose a sync solution](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7491633 "Choose a sync solution")
-   [Use Drive File Stream with work or school](https://support.google.com/drive/answer/7329379#Keepoffline "Use Drive File Stream with work or school")
