## Introduction

Shared drives are shared spaces where teams can easily store, search, and access their files anywhere, from any device. Unlike files in My Drive, files in a shared drive belong to the team instead of an individual. Even if members leave, the files stay exactly where they are so your team can continue to share information and get work done.

In this exercise you check that shared drive creation is enabled for your organization and you will modify settings to ensure data remains confidential only to members of each drive.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from Sam Morse:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*As you know we have quite a few ongoing projects and have people join and leave those projects on a regular basis. I would like for us to be able to store project documents in a shared space so users do not need to keep these files in their personal Drive and share them with others manually.*

*Can you please confirm that all users can create shared drives as they require them. I would also like to ensure that shared drive files cannot be accessed by external user and non members of the shared drive but allow the shared drive owner discretion on that point.*

*Can you make this happen?*

*Regards,*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

Let's start by setting the shared drive policies.

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Drive and Docs service.

3\. Click Sharing settings.

4\. Click Shared drive creation and configure the settings as follows:

-   Prevent users in *yourdomain* from creating new shared drives. Unchecked.
-   Prevent full-access members from modifying shared drive settings. Unchecked.
-   Prevent people outside *yourdomain* from accessing files in the shared drive. Checked.
-   Prevent non-members of the shared drive from accessing files in the shared drive. Checked.
-   Prevent commenters and viewers from downloading, copying and printing files in the shared drive. Unchecked

5\. Click SAVE.

Now we will create a shared drive.

6\. Sign out and sign back into G Suite as Timothy Lee at [drive.google.com](https://drive.google.com/ "drive.google.com").

7\. Click Shared drives on the left, and click CREATE SHARED DRIVE.

8\. Enter a drive name, e.g. *Project X* and click CREATE.

9\. Click the Add members link and add *Sam Morse* as a Content Manager, then click SEND to send here a notification that she has been added to the shared drive.

10\. Click on the shared drive title to reveal a drop down menu, and select Shared drive settings. Note that you can modify the external and non-member settings. This is because the policy above allows full-access members to modify shared drive settings.

11\. Optionally, sign back in as the administrator and return to the Sharing options card. From here disable sharing outside of the domain. Then sign back in as Timothy Lee and check the shared drive settings again. You should see that sharing outside of the domain is now disabled and cannot be changed. This is because the Sharing options override and apply to shared drives.

## Help Center resources

-   [Manage shared drives](https://support.google.com/a/topic/7337266 "Manage shared drives")
