## Introduction

As the administrator you have visibility and can manage all shared drives in your organization.

In this exercise you will explore the management features offered to you in the admin console.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Drive and Docs service.

3\. Click Migration settings. From here you can control if your users can migrate content into a shared drive.

4\. Return to the Drive and Docs service settings and click Manage shared drives. From here you can see an manage all shared drives in your organization. You can:

-   Manage members
-   Manage shared drive settings. Note: You can also override the policy that allows full-access members to manage shared drive settings from here at the individual shared drive level.
-   Restore a drive or data to a team drive

5\. Hover over the shared drive that Timothy Lee created in the previous exercise and click the Settings icon (gear) on the right hand side of the screen.

6\. Check the 'Prevent full-access members from modifying shared drive settings' box and click DONE.

7\. Sign out and sign back into G Suite as Timothy Lee at [drive.google.com](https://drive.google.com/ "drive.google.com").

8\. Click Shared drives on the left, and open the shared drive created in the previous exercise.

9\. Click on the shared drive title to reveal a drop down menu, and select Shared drive settings. Note how you can see the settings but you can no longer change any of them.

## Notes

1\. If you allow users to migrate content to a shared drive, they must have edit access on the files they wish to migrate, and the owner of the files must be a member of the destination shared drive.

## Help Center resources

-   [Migrate content to a shared drive](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7374057 "Migrate content to a shared drive")
-   [Restore deleted files or shared drives](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7376096 "Restore deleted files or shared drives")
