## Introduction

Sender Policy Framework (SPF) is an email security method that helps prevent spammers from sending unauthorized emails from your domain.

To enable SPF for your domain, a TXT record is added to your DNS configuration. This record tells receiving servers which domains/servers are allowed to send messages on your behalf. Messages sent from servers that aren't in the record might be marked as spam.

Some email servers require SPF so if you don't set up SPF for your domain, messages sent from your domain might bounce or might be marked as spam by some receiving servers.

In this exercise you will review and optionally set your domain's Sender Policy Framework (SPF) record.

## Directions

1\. Sign into your domain registrar. See [Sign into your Domain Registrar](https://www.coursera.org/learn/g-suite-mail-management/supplement/6wpSd/exercise-1-sign-into-your-domain-registrar "Sign into your Domain Registrar").

2\. Locate your DNS records.

If you purchased your domain through Google, there should be an existing SPF record as shown in the table below. This specifies that google servers only are allowed to send email on your behalf.

| Name | Record Type | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Blank or @ | TXT | v=spf1 include:_spf.google.com ~all |

3\. If you did not purchase the domain as part of the sign up flow and the domain you are using is for training only, you can add the SPF record as shown above to your DNS records.

4\. You can check which IP addresses are covered by* _spf.google.com* using the Check MX utility. Simply perform the lookup and then click the Effective SPF Address Ranges link in the results. Try that now but remember it can take a while for DNS record changes to propagate.

## Notes

1\. Multiple SPF records for a single domain can cause problems so each domain should only one SPF record. If multiple servers send mail on your behalf, don't create an SPF record for each server. Instead, update one SPF record to include all your mail servers. For example, if you are using an outbound gateway to route mail you would want to include that gateway in your SPF record as below.

*v=spf1 ip4:172.16.254.1 include:_spf.google.com ~all *(where 172.16.251.1 is the IP address of the gateway)

2\. Your new SPF record takes effect within 48 hours.

## Help Center resources

-   [Authorize email senders with SPF](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33786 "Authorize email senders with SPF")
