## Introduction

DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) is an email security method that helps prevent email spoofing on outgoing messages. This is where email content is changed to make the message appear from someone or somewhere other than the actual source.

DKIM adds an encrypted signature to the header of all outgoing messages. Email servers that get these messages use DKIM to decrypt the message header, and verify the message was not changed after it was sent.

Like SPF, some servers require a DKIM signature. We recommend you use your own DKIM key but if you don't Gmail will sign all outgoing messages with this default DKIM domain key: *d=*.gappssmtp.com*.

In this exercise, you will generate a DKIM key for your domain, add the DKIM public key to your DNS records, and enable email signing in the admin console.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Click Authenticate email.

You may see the message *Google can auto-configure this domain* for you, but for the purposes of this exercise we will do it ourselves.

4\. Click Generate new record and click GENERATE in the resulting dialog box. Leave this admin console page open.

You will now add your DKIM key to your DNS records.

5\. Open up a new browser tab and sign into your domain registrar. See [Sign into your Domain Registrar](https://www.coursera.org/learn/g-suite-mail-management/supplement/6wpSd/exercise-1-sign-into-your-domain-registrar "Sign into your Domain Registrar").

6\. Locate your your DNS records and look for an existing *google._domainkey* record. If one exists, you should delete it.

7\. Add your new TXT record as below. The values in the 'Name' and 'Value' columns below are examples only. You should copy your values from the admin console 'TXT record name' and 'TXT record value' fields.

| Name | Record Type | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| google._domainkey | TXT | v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgK AQEAmGZaz9puH3hrlRsavms9CQtdajO6tqPLJ6ZgJlF464uYKnDKETK3u 6iCx6246Leopqe/SKAeO48gXOWFmie2U1qrF34vrQIbc73nlfgd6BlJ0v Jm6VrfwpRc1E0qZWu1GPzlkMm8vjnTjZegvbREBnsNTsUOT5Vpe9AyBU7 P3tpG101QdZwN4JESye4x9a7ZQQviNt07mHlYemLrtUz3vTtJ8azBkCC9 bYn+xYed2eqDEEzhZn/mxgdoaQ1mWQ50+asUTCCwZL9Vys3arbp4AxDNx |

8\. Return the admin console and click START AUTHENTICATION. When you turn on email signing, Gmail verifies you have a DKIM domain key. If the DKIM domain key is not found, G Suite displays a warning message so you should try again later.

9\. Rerun the Check MX utility for your domain. You should no longer see a message advising you that DKIM is not set up. Remember it can take a while for DNS record changes to propagate so you may need to try again later.

## Notes

1\. DNS TXT records can have up to 255 characters in a single string. For TXT records over 255 characters, DNS chains multiple text strings together into a single record. if your domain host (registrar) limits TXT records to 255 characters, you should contact them to find out what steps are required to update your DNS records with the domain key.

## Help Center resources

-   [About DKIM](https://support.google.com/a/answer/174124 "About DKIM")
