## Introduction

In this exercise you will check and configure some of the more common user settings for your organization. You will also modify settings for a single OU as per company policy.

## Scenario

The company has decided to configure several important Gmail features and user access settings as follows:

-   Let users choose their own themes
-   Don't allow email read receipts to be sent
-   Let users delegate access to their mailbox to other users
-   Enable Gmail web offline
-   Do not allow contractors to delegate access to their mailbox or use Gmail web offline

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Click User settings.

4\. Review the settings for Gmail. Several policies are already configured while others must be changed.

-   In 'Themes' ensure *Let users choose their own themes* is checked.
-   In the 'Email Read Receipts' section ensure *Do not allow email read receipts to be sent* option is selected.
-   In the 'Mail Delegation' section check the *Let users delegate access to their mailbox to other users in the domain* box.
-   In the 'Gmail web offline' section check the *Enable Gmail web offline* box.

5\. Click SAVE.

6\. Click the Contractors OU (left side of page).

Note the OU policies are inherited from the top level organization:

-   In the 'Mail Delegation' section deselect the *Let users delegate access to their mailbox to other users in the domain* box.
-   In the 'Gmail web offline' section deselect the *Enable Gmail web offline* box.

7\. Click Save.

## Help Center resources

-   [Assign Gmail settings for users](https://support.google.com/a/answer/173555 "Assign Gmail settings for users")
