## Introduction

In this exercise you will use G Suite Mobile Management to enforce the company's mobile policies for Android devices. You will disable iOS an Google Sync devices.

## Scenario

You receive the following message from Alex, IT Manager:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*I hope I'm not keeping you too busy with my requests, but I have another urgent one for you.*

*Our immediate task is to make sure we secure mobile access to G Suite. We've decided to go with the "BYOD---Bring Your Own Device" strategy so our employees can use their personal mobile devices for work too using a work profile. But they'll need to adhere to our security policies. I've read that you can enforce these policies with G Suite Mobile Management.*

*I've decided to go with Google's best practices and define a standard set of access policies across all devices and organizations with emphasis on password settings. Mobile policies can be adjusted later, if necessary.*

*Thanks,*

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Device management icon.

3\. Click the Setup link on the left.

4\. Click Mobile Management and ensure that 'Enable Mobile Management' is *Enabled*.

5\. Select *Custom* and set 'Android' to *Advanced*, and iOS and Google Sync to *Unmanaged*.

6\. Click SAVE if you have made any changes.

7\. Scroll down and click Device Approvals. Confirm 'Requires Admin approval' is checked.

9\. Click SAVE if you have made any changes.

10\. Scroll down and click Sync on Mobile. Enable 'Android Sync' but deselect 'iOS' and 'Google Sync'.

11\. Click SAVE.

12\. Return to the 'Device management' screen and click the Advanced Settings link on the left.

13\. Click Security and ensure that 'Block Compromised Android devices' is selected and that 'Allow camera' is deselected.

14\. Click SAVE.

15\. Return to the 'Device management' screen and click the Android Settings link on the left.

16\. Click Work Profile.

17\. In the 'Work Profile Setup' section, set 'Work Profile in Android for Work supported devices' to *Enforce*. By enforcing the creation of a work profile users can't sync corporate data unless they accept the work profile, and they don't have the option to opt out.

18\. Click SAVE if you have made any changes.

Congratulations. You've set up advanced mobile management for your organization. Users can enroll their devices for management by adding their corporate account to a device. After users enroll their devices, you can see the device in the admin console. There, you can manage the device, apply settings, monitor it, and more.

## Notes

1.  To enforce these policies on Android devices, your users must install the [Google Apps Device Policy](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.enterprise.dmagent "Google Apps Device Policy") app on their device. This app ensures that your domain policies are set properly on the user's Android device before synchronizing any data. See [Google Apps Device Policy overview](https://support.google.com/a/users/answer/190930 "Google Apps Device Policy overview") for more details. If the app isn't already installed when the user adds their corporate account to their phone, the app is typically installed automatically as part of the sign up process.

## Help Center resources

-   [Apply settings for Android mobile devices](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6328708 "Apply settings for Android mobile devices")
-   [Control what devices can access your data](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6328712 "Control what devices can access your data")
