## Introduction

Don't worry if you didn't complete the previous exercise as you will not be wiping or blocking any devices today. This exercise just shows you where to go to manage a device that is believed to be lost or non-compliant and lists the actions that are available to you in the admin console.

If a user loses a computer or mobile device that has an open connection to that user's G Suite account, or maintains cookies that permit a connection without first entering a username and password, that G Suite account is potentially exposed to anyone who has possession of the computer or device.

Below, you will see the steps for both wiping a user's device, and blocking a non-compliant device.

## Directions

#### Option 1: Device management - Wiping and blocking a device

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Device management icon.

3\. Click the Mobile devices icon. From here you can see details of your mobile devices such as the device name, owner details, OS version and status.

If a user has lost a device or it is believed to have been compromised you have the following options:

-   Block device
-   Wipe account
-   Wipe device
-   Delete device

The action you choose will depend upon the type of device (personal or company-owned) and the situation that is presented. See [Remove corporate data from a mobile device](https://support.google.com/a/answer/173390 "Remove corporate data from a mobile device") for more information.

#### Option 2: Using a device management rule

When a device falls out of compliance with your organization's policies, you can automatically block it from accessing corporate data and notify the user. For example, if you enforce a minimum password length and a user's password is shorter than the length required, the device is not compliant because it doesn't adhere to your password policy.

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Rules icon.

3\. Click the yellow circle with the + sign to add a new rule.

4\. Click DEVICE MANAGEMENT. From here you can create a new rule from a blank template, or a rule based on an existing template.

5\. Examine an existing template, e.g: 'Block account on multiple failed screen locks'. By selecting it you will be making a copy of it to create your own template.

Note the conditions and actions available:

-   Users: The rule can be applied to OUs of Groups
-   Filters: You can filter by OS and on a number of device events such as 'Failed screen unlock attempts'
-   Actions: You can email super administrators and block or wipe the device if conditions are met

6\. Do not save the new rule. Click DISCARD.

#### Option 3: Reset a users sign in cookies

To block unauthorized access to an account, you can reset the sign-in cookies for that user, which has the effect of signing that user out from all current HTTP sessions, and requiring new authentication the next time that user tries to initiate an HTTP session to sign in to G Suite.

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Locate the user in the list and click on the name, and click the Security card.

4\. Click on the Sign in cookies row, and click RESET.

## Help Center resources

-   [Block access to your Google service on a lost device](https://support.google.com/a/answer/178854 "Block access to your Google service on a lost device")
-   [Remove corporate data from a mobile device](https://support.google.com/a/answer/173390 "Remove corporate data from a mobile device")
-   [Automate mobile management tasks with rules](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7425191 "Automate mobile management tasks with rules")
