## Introduction

In this exercise you will review the sharing settings for the Calendar service.

## Scenario

The company wants to restrict external sharing of calendars but also allow internal sharing to be managed by each user. Users can:

-   Only share free/busy information publicly
-   Share all information internally

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Calendar service.

3\. Click Sharing settings.

4\. Confirm that 'External sharing options for primary calendars' is set to *Only free/busy information (hide event details)*. This represents the highest level of sharing allowed.

5\. Confirm that 'Internal sharing options for primary calendars' is set to *Share all information*. This represents the default setting for new users. Users can still change this setting.

6\. Return to the Calendar settings page, scroll down and click General settings.

7\. Confirm that 'External sharing options for secondary calendars' is set to *Only free/busy information (hide event details)*. This represents the highest level of sharing allowed.

8\. Confirm that 'Internal sharing options for primary calendars' is set to *Share all information*. This represents the default setting for new calendars. Users can still change this setting.

## Notes

1.  The sharing settings you set above determine the highest level of sharing that a user is allowed to make for their calendars.
2.  If you lower a 'highest level of sharing' setting people may lose access to calendars they could see previously.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set Calendar visibility and sharing options](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60765 "Set Calendar visibility and sharing options")
