## Introduction

In an earlier exercise you created two calendar resources: Conference room, and Boardroom. By default, no-one should be able to book the resources except administrators.

This exercise will guide you through setting access to both of these resources. Read through the scenario and then complete the steps in the exercise. Remember, if you feel you need more context, go back to the help center resources linked at the beginning of this lesson.

## Scenario

You have received a request from Alex, IT Manager asking you to allow anyone in the organization to be able to book the Conference room but he also wants you to restrict booking access for the Boardroom to the Ellie Gray only. As Executive Assistant only she should be able to manage this resource.

The Boardroom should have restricted access to the Executive Assistant.

## Directions

In G Suite, calendar resources are owned by the administrator users, which means you manage the settings of these calendars resources from your own calendar.

1\. Sign in as the administrator and open your Google Calendar from the Apps launcher or by visiting [calendar.google.com](https://calendar.google.com/)

Eventually the calendar resources will automatically appear in the administrator's 'My calendars' list. This can take some time however so if necessary, we'll use another technique to make them display sooner. If you cannot see the Boardroom under 'My calendars':

-   Click the + sign to the right of 'Other Calendars' and click Browse resources. You should see the Boardroom listed.

-   Hover over the *Boardroom* and tick the check box to the right of the resource. Repeat this for the *Conference room*.

-   Go back to your calendar. Both resources should now be listed under 'My calendars'.

#### Make the Conference room available for all users

2\. Hover over the Conference room in your 'My calendars' list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) next to the calendar name, and then click Settings and sharing.

3\. Adjust the sharing settings as follows:

-   In the 'Access permissions' section, check the *Make available for yourdomain* box. By default they should be unchecked.

4\. Return to your calendar. Hover over the Boardroom in your 'My calendars' list and click the ellipses (three vertical dots) next to the calendar name, and then click Settings and sharing.

5\. Adjust the sharing settings as follows:

-   In the 'Access permissions' section, ensure that *Make available to public* and *Make available for yourdomain* are both deselected.
-   In the 'Share with specific people' section, click Add people and add Ellie Gray.
-   Set her Permissions to 'Make changes and manage sharing' and click Send.

6\. Verify that the Boardroom is available to Ellie and not available to other users. For more information, see[ Test scheduling resources](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1037476).

-   Sign in as Ellie and open Google Calendar. You should see the Boardroom listed under 'My Calendars'. You won't see the Conference room listed because you do not manage this calendar.
-   Create an event. You should see both rooms listed on the 'Rooms' tab. Note: You manage the Boardroom but you can also see the Conference room because this was made available to all users in Step 3 above.
-   Sign out and sign in again, this time as Jon Baird and open Google Calendar.
-   Create an event and look at the 'Rooms' tab. You should see the Conference room only. You do not have access to book the Boardroom so it will not be listed.

7\. Optionally, try to subscribe to the Boardroom as Jon by browsing to the resource and checking the box to the right of the resource name in the 'Resources' list. This should result in an error as Jon does not have access.
