## Introduction

Before you can use any G Suite service Google must verify that you own the domain you intend to associate with your G Suite account.

There are a number of ways you can verify ownership but the most common method is by adding a TXT record to your domain's DNS records. This record is provided by Google. When you signed up for the G Suite trial earlier, Google added the verification record for you so you don't need to do any more for the purposes of this training. However, if you wanted to use G Suite with an existing domain, you will need to add this record yourself.

Even though you do not need to verify your training domain it is very useful to understand the the different types of DNS records that you need to work effectively with G Suite. In this exercise you will log into your domain registrar and review the records that Google uses.

## Directions

Please note: The DNS records discussed here are added by Google only if you purchased your domain during the sign-up flow. Advanced DNS settings credentials are also only visible for domains purchased during sign up.

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Domains icon.

3\. Click Add/remove domains or the Manage Domains icon and then expand the Advanced DNS settings section (center of the page). This will reveal your domain registrar username and password.

4\. Click the Sign into DNS console link and login to your domain registrar. You should now be able to review your domain's DNS records.

Look for your 'google-site-verification' record. It will look something like this:

| Host name | Address | Record type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| @ | google-site-verification=zgBjWugcSIx4nPl6tZ4thei9Tc | TXT |

In addition to the site verification record Google will have added some additional records:

-   A Sender Policy Framework (SPF) TXT record (this allows receiving mail servers to verify that the sending servers are authorized to send mail on your domain's behalf)
-   A number of CNAME (Alias) records which you can use to provide more user friendly URLs to core Google services such as Gmail and Calendar.
-   Mail Exchanger (MX) records (ensures mail is routed to Google's servers)

Examples of these are below. Check that they exist in your DNS records

| Host name | Address | Record type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| @ | v=spf1 include:_spf.google.com ?all | TXT |
| mail | ghs.googlehosted.com. | CNAME (Alias) |
| sites | ghs.googlehosted.com. | CNAME (Alias) |
| calendar | ghs.googlehosted.com. | CNAME (Alias) |
| docs | ghs.googlehosted.com. | CNAME (Alias) |

| Host name | Record type | Address | Priority |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| @ (none) | MX | aspmx.l.google.com. | 1 |
| @ (none) | MX | alt1.aspmx.l.google.com. | 5 |
| @ (none) | MX | alt2.aspmx.l.google.com. | 10 |

#### Notes:

i. The column names may vary from those above depending upon the registrar you chose when you signed up for the G Suite trial.

ii. There are typically 5 MX records. We have just shown the first three here to keep things simple.

5\. Sign out of your domain registrar.

#### Existing domain considerations

Where you want to use an existing domain with a G Suite account you will need to verify the domain using one of the options allowed by Google. For more information please see [Sign up for G Suite](https://support.google.com/a/answer/53926) and [Verify your domain for G Suite](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60216).

in addition to verifying your domain, if you are using Gmail you will need to update your Mail Exchanger (MX) records to direct mail to the Google servers. For more information see [Set up MX records for G Suite Gmail](https://support.google.com/a/answer/140034).

It is recommended that you add an SPF record for your domain. If you do not set up SPF, some messages may bounce or be marked as spam. To learn more, see [Authorize email senders with SPF](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33786).
