## Introduction

Now that you've added a larger batch of users, some of your users have already signed in and started to use G Suite. In this exercise you will be given a scenario where you are asked to create an email alias for a user. An email alias allows a user to receive email sent to multiple addresses in their Gmail inbox.

Read through the scenario, and then go through the steps to complete the exercise!

## Scenario

You receive this email from the CEO:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*Thanks for creating my G Suite account. However I have to ask for a minor change. My email is samantha.morse@yourdomain but really most people know me as just "sam". Is there any way I can have this as my email also?*

*Regards,*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Locate *Samantha Morse* in the user list, click her name, and click the User information card.

4\. Click the Email aliases section.

5\. In the Alias text field, enter *sam* and click SAVE.

6\. Now notify Sam about her new email alias and remind her about its limitations:

*Dear Sam,*

*I have created a new email alias for you. In addition to your primary email address, samantha.morse@yourdomain, you can now also receive mail sent to sam@yourdomain.*

*However, please be aware that you'll still need to use your primary email address: samantha.morse@yourdomain to sign in to G Suite.*

*Note that it may take up to 24 hours for the email alias to become available.*

*Regards, Your G Suite Admin*

## Notes

1.  If you add a[ domain alias](https://support.google.com/a/answer/182079) every email address in the primary domain automatically has an email alias address in the alias domain. We will discuss domains in more detail later.

## Help Center resources

-   [Add or remove an email alias](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33327)
