## Introduction

As the administrator you're likely to come across a situation where a user needs their password to be reset.

-   A user may simply forget their password
-   A user's account is compromised (security concerns)

G Suite includes a feature that allows users to recover their own password but this is disabled by default, and each user must add a recovery phone or email address to their account for this feature to work.

Where the user does not know their password, and recovery information has not been added (or if self-service recovery is not enabled), the administrator must reset the password.

## Scenario

Tim Lee has just come back from vacation, he calls to ask you to reset his password, because he's forgotten it and is now locked out of his account.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click on the Users icon.

3\. Access the reset password function by one of two ways:

-   Hover over *Tim Lee* in the user list and click Reset password on the right.
-   Click on *Tim Lee* in the user list to open his profile and then click RESET PASSWORD on the left.

4\. In the 'Reset password' dialog box:

-   Fill in a temporary password or click Auto-generate password to let Google create one for you.
-   Check the 'Ask for a password change at the next sign-in'.
-   Click RESET.
-   Click the Click to copy password link to copy the password to your clipboard.
-   Click DONE.

5\. Provide Tim with his new password. When he next signs in he will be asked to change his password.

## Notes

1.  Users can change/reset their existing password if they know their existing password and can successfully sign in. See [Change or reset your password](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/41078).
2.  If the administrator has enabled non-admin password recovery users can reset their password without administrator assistance. See [Set up password recovery for users](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33382?hl=en&ref_topic=7294638) for more details. Note that this feature is not available for customers using Single Sign-on (SSO).
3.  Admins should check the Help Center for considerations regarding user off-boarding, and hijacked accounts before enabling this feature.

## Help Center resources

-   [Reset a user's password](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6169271)
-   [Create a strong password & a more secure account](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/32040) for password tips.
