## Introduction

As an administrator for your organization's G Suite service, you change a user's email address in the admin console. You can also change the display name that shows up in emails they send, calendar invites, and so on. Users can also change their own display name but they can't change their address.

## Scenario

You receive this mail from the Tim Lee:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*Thanks for resetting my password. I have another issue with my account, maybe you can help. I don't ever use the name Tim. At work I go by my full name Timothy but all my friends and coworkers call me Timmy. Can you fix my account so I login and mail with my preferred names?*

*Thanks,*

*Timothy Lee, Finance*

You decide that the best way to implement this is rename the user to *timothy@yourdomain *to allow him to sign in and use his mail with this new username. Then add an alias of *timmy@yourdomain* to the account.

## Directions

1\. Ask Tim Lee to sign out of his G Suite account.

2\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

3\. Click the Users icon.

4\. In the user list, hover over *Tim Lee* and click Rename user on the right.

5\. In the 'Rename user' dialog box, read the warning message and enter the following:

-   First name: *Timothy*
-   Last name: *Lee*
-   Primary email: *timothy.lee*. This is the username he'll use to sign in to G Suite.

The First and Last name settings represent the Display Name.

6\. Click RENAME and then click CONTINUE to confirm the change.

Now that you have renamed the user to allow him to use his full name (Timothy) to sign in and send mails, let's look at his other request to use the name Timmy to send mail.

7\. If you are not already in Timothy's user profile select *Timothy Lee* from the users list.

8\. Expand the User information card and click on the Email aliases section. Notice here that Tim's original email address *tim.lee@yourdomain* has been added as an alias. This is to ensure that he can still receive mail sent to his old primary address.

9\. Add a new alias *Timmy* and click SAVE.

Now you can see the difference between just adding an alias for a user and renaming a user.

## Notes

1.  It can take up to 10 minutes for a new primary email address (rename) to be reflected throughout the system, 24 hours for domain and personal contact changes to take effect, and up to 3 days before the user can use chat.
2.  It can take up to 24 hours for the alias to become available.

## Help Center resources

-   [Rename a user](https://support.google.com/a/answer/182084)
