## Introduction

As a G Suite administrator, you can temporarily block a user's access to G Suite services by suspending the user's account. This disables the account without deleting the user or any data in their account. Any content that they own and have shared with others remains accessible to collaborators.

A suspended user can't sign in to the account, and new emails and calendar invitations are blocked. As the account is not deleted a license fee still applies.

## Scenario

You receive this email from Lars Ericsson, the HR Manager:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*I had a contractor working with me last week for a project, his name is Jon Baird. He has an account to sign in to our system but for the next few weeks he'll be working somewhere else. Is there a way to prevent him from signing in without losing all the work he's done already? He'll be back to work with us soon.*

*Regards, Lars Ericsson*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Locate *Jon Baird* in the list and hover over his name, then click More > Suspend user.

4\. Click SUSPEND. The Status column for Jon will change from Active to Suspended.

Tip: To view only suspended users, click Add a filter > User status, select Suspended and APPLY the filter. Your filter will also show at the top of the screen. Clear the filter by clicking the cross to the right of the filter value.

## Scenario (continued)

A few weeks later, you receive another email from Lars Ericsson, the HR Manager:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*I have a contractor, Jon Baird, who will be working with us again next week. He had an account before but is locked out at my request. Can you please re-enable him?*

*Regards, Lars Ericsson*

As a G Suite administrator, you can restore a user you (or another administrator) suspended.

## Directions (continued)

1\. In the user list, filter for suspended users. Locate *Jon Baird* in the list and hover over his name, then click More > Reactivate.

2\. Click REACTIVATE to confirm. Jon will be removed from the suspended user list.

3\. Clear the filter and confirm that Jon's status has been changed back to Active.

Jon can now sign in and has full access to his account and data.

## Notes

1.  Administrators manually suspending users is just one way that a G Suite account can be suspended or disabled. If the user is manually suspended by an administrator, it's possible for an administrator to restore their account immediately.
2.  A user can also be automatically suspended from Gmail for exceeding [Email sending limits](https://support.google.com/a/answer/166852). In this case, the user can still sign in to their G Suite account to access other services, such as Calendar and Drive. But when they try to access Gmail, an error prompts that Google detected unusual activity on the account. Most users will regain access automatically within 24 hours, but in some cases, an administrator can reset the limits for the user and allow them to immediately regain access.
3.  You cannot restore an account that was suspended for abuse or for breaching Google's [Terms of Service](https://gsuite.google.com/terms/2013/1/premier_terms.html "Terms of Service").
4.  You cannot restore a user with an abusive account status. Administrators can contact Google Support for more information.

## Help Center resources

-   [Suspend a user](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33312?hl=en)
