## Introduction

When a user leaves your organization you might want to delete their G Suite account. This deletes all of their data and they'll no longer be able to sign in to G Suite. It's important to understand the difference between account deletion and suspension,  so you should develop a process for users leaving the company, and create a policy that best suits your business needs.

Once you delete the account data is retained for a period of 20 days so this does give you the opportunity to restore an account should you need to within a limited time frame. In addition, it is also possible to transfer certain data (Docs, Calendar, Google+ pages) to a new owner at the point of account deletion.

Be aware that there are many other considerations that you should be aware of before deleting an account; there may be many other types of data that could be lost without following proper steps.

## Scenario

After some time working in the G Suite domain, you get another email from Lars Ericsson, the HR Manager:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*That contractor I had working with me, Jon Baird, has finished up his project. Can you please delete his account from the system as he won't be working here anymore? Will you make sure that any files he still has belong to me now? Don't want to lose anything important.*

*Regards, Lars Ericsson*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Locate *Jon Baird* in the list and hover over his name, then click More > Delete user.

You now have the option to transfer certain types of data from Jon's account to a new owner. Lars has asked you to transfer ownership of all of Jon's files to him.

4\. In the dialog ensure 'Drive and Docs' is selected and check 'Include files that are not shared with anyone'. You can deselect 'Calendar and Google+ Pages'.

5\. Search for *Lars Ericsson* to complete the 'Transfer to' field and click DELETE.

Jon's account will now temporarily be suspended whilst the transfer takes place. The account will then be deleted.

6\. Click DONE.

7\. Check your inbox. You should receive a notification confirming that the deletion was successful.

## Help Center resources

-   [Delete a user from your organization](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33314)
