## Introduction

The G Suite super administrator can restore a user account up to 20 days after deleting it. After this period, the admin console permanently deletes the user account and it can't be recovered, even by Google technical support.

In most cases, restoring a deleted user account also restores the user's associated data, including email and calendar events; however, Google doesn't guarantee full data recovery for a deleted user.

## Scenario

The next day you get a high priority email from Lars Ericsson, the HR Manager:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*I'm afraid I was a little premature in getting you to delete our Jon Baird's account. We've decided to hire him as a full-time employee.*

*Is there any way you can restore his user account?*

*Regards, Lars Ericsson*

##Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Click Add a filter and select Recently deleted.

Tip: If you have multiple organizational units , complete this action from the top level organization. Deleted users lose their organization details and are moved to the top level organization. We will discuss organizational structure later in this course.

4\. Locate* Jon Baird* in the list and hover over his name, then click Recover.

5\. Click CONTINUE.

6\. Select your top level organization and click RECOVER.

7\. Clear the Recently deleted filter to return the user list. It can take up to 2 hours to restore account but you should shortly see Jon appear in the list.

8\. If a user was suspended at the time the account was deleted, such as when you transfer ownership of data, the user will remain suspended after the account is restored. To reactivate Jon, locate him in the user list and hover over his name, then click More > Reactivate. Then click REACTIVATE to confirm.

## Notes

1.  You can restore only one user at a time.
2.  It may take some time for the user to be visible again in the active user list.
3.  When you restore deleted users after transferring the ownership of their files to other users, the restored users do not automatically acquire ownership of their old files. Instead, they can only edit the files they previously owned.

## Help center resources

-   [Restore a recently deleted user](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1397578)
