## Introduction

Every user needs a license to use a Google service. For example, a user must have a license for G Suite before they can use Gmail, Google Drive, or any other G Suite service.

There are two types of license, a site-based license and a user-based license. When you sign up for a service that has a site-based license such as Android every user in your organization gets a license so you don't need to assign this type of license. User-based licenses, such as a G Suite license may need to be assigned depending upon your subscriptions and this can be done manually or automatically.

## Assigning licenses

If you purchased just one subscription, e.g: G Suite Enterprise all of your users will get this license automatically so you do not need to assign licensed.

If you have multiple user-based subscriptions such as G Suite and Google Drive storage you must assign each user a license. You must also assign a license if you have multiple subscriptions to the same server, e.g: you may have G Suite Business and G Suite Enterprise licenses in your organization.

License assignment can be applied to everyone in your organization, at the organizational unit level ( we will discuss organizational structure later in this course) or at the individual user level. It is also possible to configure automatic license assignment for your organization so you do not need to manually assign a license to each new user.

## Notes

1.  A single user can have a license for more than one service.

## Help Center resources

-   [How licensing works](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6309862 "How licensing works")
-   [Compare G Suite editions](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6043385 "Compare G Suite editions")
