## Introduction

Probably the most commonly known DNS record are Mail Exchange (MX) records. These ensure that inbound mail is correctly routed to your mail host, and in the case of G Suite they tell the internet to route mail to Google's mail servers for eventual delivery to your user's Gmail inbox. In this exercise you will review your MX records.

## Directions

1\. Sign into your domain registrar. See [Sign into your Domain Registrar](https://www.coursera.org/learn/g-suite-mail-management/supplement/6wpSd/exercise-1-sign-into-your-domain-registrar "Sign into your Domain Registrar").

2\. Locate your MX records in your DNS records.

If you purchased your domain through Google, these should already be configured for you. You should see records similar to those shown in the table below.

| Name | Time to Live (TTL*) | Record Type | Priority | Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Blank or @ | 3600 | MX | 1 | ASPMX.L.GOOGLE.COM. |
| Blank or @ | 3600 | MX | 5 | ALT1.ASPMX.L.GOOGLE.COM. |
| Blank or @ | 3600 | MX | 5 | ALT2.ASPMX.L.GOOGLE.COM. |
| Blank or @ | 3600 | MX | 10 | ALT3.ASPMX.L.GOOGLE.COM. |
| Blank or @ | 3600 | MX | 10 | ALT4.ASPMX.L.GOOGLE.COM. |

If you did not purchase your domain as part of the sign up flow you would need to add the records shown above to ensure mail for your domain is routed to the Google servers.

## Notes

1\. Always create your user accounts before switching MX records to G Suite.

2\. The TTL is the number of seconds before subsequent changes to the MX record go into effect. Once the MX records are configured correctly, we recommend changing the TTL value from 3600 to 86400, which tells servers across the Internet to check every 24 hours for updates to the MX record instead of every hour.

3\. If you are moving from one mail system to another, it's wise when switching your MX records across to the new system to leave your existing MX records but at a lower priority until all mail is routing to the new system. This ensures no mail is lost and you can remove the old records later once you fully switch to the new system.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set up MX records for G Suite Gmail](https://support.google.com/a/answer/140034 "Set up MX records for G Suite Gmail")
-   [Avoid email bouncing from new MX records](https://support.google.com/a/answer/45679 "Avoid email bouncing from new MX records")
-   [Troubleshoot MX records](https://support.google.com/a/answer/140038 "Troubleshoot MX records")
