## Introduction

G Suite has many APIs that allow third party applications to interact with G Suite services such as Gmail, Calendar, Contacts, etc. An example of usage might be a locally installed application which syncs a local contacts database with your G Suite contacts. This application would likely use the Contacts or People API to sync data.

In addition to APIs that access to user data, G Suite includes the Admin SDK API. This is specifically designed to allow developers to interact with the admin console and objects such as user's calendar resources, groups, OUs, etc.

Before an application can interact with your admin console however, you must enable API access for the Admin SDK API. Unless you are using or developing an application that uses the Admin SDK API, it is recommended that you leave it disabled.

The purpose of this exercise is to make you aware of this requirement and to direct you to the control in the admin console.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Security icon, scroll down and click on API reference section. From here you can enable/disable API access. Note: This section is due to move to the API permissions section so if you do not see API reference, check the API permissions section for the Admin SDK option.

## Help Center resources

-   [Developer Offerings](https://developers.google.com/gsuite/products "Developer Offerings") (G Suite APIs list)
-   [Admin SDK](https://developers.google.com/admin-sdk/ "Admin SDK")
