## Introduction

As an administrator you can add information such as phone numbers, secondary email addresses, and location details to a user's profile. You can edit profiles individually in the admin console or you can use the Admin SDK API or a third party product. You can also use GCDS to update user profiles. Finally, you can also allow users to update some profile information themselves.

In this exercise you will update a user's profile in the admin console. You will then update your directory settings to allow users to update their own profiles.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from Lars Ericsson, the HR Manager:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*You may recall that we recently hired Jon Baird. He used to work as a contractor but as he in now full time employee can you please update his job title to be HR Business Partner.*

*In addition, I understand that G Suite allows users to update some aspects of their own profile. I see no reason why our users should not be allowed to do this so can you please enable this feature. Thanks.*

*Regards, Lars Ericsson*

## Directions

Let's start by updating Jon's job title.

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Locate *Jon Baird* in the list and click his name, then click the User information card.

4\. Click anywhere in the Employee information section. You can now edit this section.

5\. Change Jon's Job title to *HR Business Partner* and click SAVE.

Now let's ensure users can update their own profiles.

6\. Select Directory > Directory settings from the left hand menu.

7\. Click Profile editing.

8\. By default, users can change their 'Birthday' and 'Work location' from their [About Me](https://aboutme.google.com/ "About Me") page. Check all other fields so that users can also update their 'Name', 'Photo' and 'Gender'.

9\. Click SAVE.

## Notes

1\. It might take up to 24 hours for changes to appear in the directory.

2\. Adding work location information (whether you do this as the administrator or you allow user's to do this for themselves is recommended) is recommended as this allows Google Calendar to make smart room recommendations based upon the user's location. You must also have added your buildings and resources for smart room recommendations to work.

3\. If you decide to complete your employee ID information (and you are not using SSO or 2SV) you can use these IDs as a login challenge to help protect your user accounts when Google suspects that an unauthorized person is trying to access a user's account.

## Help Center resources

-   [Add information to a user's profile](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6191788 "Add information to a user's profile")
-   [Let users change their photo and profile information](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7326921 "Let users change their photo and profile information")
-   [Add employee ID as a login challenge](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9022736 "Add employee ID as a login challenge")
