## Introduction

In a single domain environment your organization will have one directory (global address list) and all users can see everyone in that directory. In a multiple domain environment you can restrict visibility such that users in one domain can only see other users in their primary domain.

You can also setup custom directories to limit who users can find in autocomplete lists, contacts, and searches. Custom directories are applied at the OU level.

In this exercise you will create a new OU and configure it to use a custom directory.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from Lars Ericsson, the HR Manager:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*We are about to commence a new project and will be installing a new expenses system. A consultant will be joining us for a month or so to help us implement the new system and train our users.*

*Whilst here he will need to have a G Suite account so we can collaborate on project documents, etc. Can you please create the following account.*

| First name | Last name | Email address | Employee title |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Mark | Jones | mark.jones@*yourdomain* | Consultant |

*We would also like to keep our company directory information confidential from contract staff so can you restrict visibility so that Mark can only see users involved on the project. Please ensure he can lookup my details and Jon Baird as he will be leading the implementation on our behalf. Thanks.*

*Regards, Lars Ericsson*

## Directions

There are a number of steps you must complete to fully satisfy the request.

#### Create a new OU

Custom directories are applied to an OU so let's start by creating an OU.

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. From the menu (top left) select Directory > Organizational units.

3\. Click on the yellow circle with the + sign to create a new OU.

4\. Give the OU the name of *Contractors *and click CREATE.

#### Create the user account

Now we need to create Mark's account.

5\. Click the Users icon.

6\. Click Add new user.

7\. In the dialog box that appears, create and account for Mark Jones as follows:

-   First name: *Mark*
-   Last name: *Jones*
-   Primary email: *mark.jones@yourdomain*
-   Organizational unit: *Contractors *(use the pencil icon on the right to select the correct OU)
-   Password: *hellohello1*
-   Move the slider for 'Ask for a password change at the next sign-in' to ensure Mark changes his password when he first signs into his account.

8\. Click ADD NEW USER to create the account.

9\. Click DONE.

#### Create a Google group

Custom directories use Google Groups to determine which user information to show so we must create a Google group before we create the custom directory.

10\. From the menu (top left) select Directory > Groups.

11\. Click Create group.

12\. Enter the following Group details:

-   Name: *HR Project*
-   Description: *Custom directory group for HR*
-   Group email: *hrpoject*

13\. Click NEXT.

14\. Choose *Team* as the access type and click CREATE GROUP.

15\. Click the Add members to HR Project link, then click the yellow circle with a + sign to add members. Enter Mark's email address and also add Lars and Jon.

16\. Click ADD TO GROUP. You should now see all three users listed as members of the group.

17\. Hover over Lars and click the down arrow in the *Role* column and select Manager to make Lars the group's manager.

18\. Click SAVE.

#### Create the custom directory for the new OU

The final step is to define the custom directory.

19\. From the menu (top left) select Directory > Directory settings.

20\. Click Visibility settings.

21\. Select Contractors from the list of OUs on the left hand side of the page.

22\. Change the Directory visibility for the HR Project OU to Users in a custom directory.

23\. Click CREATE NEW and enter a name for the new directory of *HR Project*.

24\. Select *HR Project* from the list of groups and click CREATE.

25\. Click SAVE.

26\. Notify Lars that you have fulfilled his request, and don't forget to provide him with Mark's password.

Congratulations you have just added a custom directory to your organization!

## Notes

1\. It can take up to 24 hours for changes to custom directories to become available.

## Help Center resources

-   [Customize a directory for a team or group](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7566446 "Customize a directory for a team or group")
