## Introduction

In this exercise, you'll manually add an individual user: Alex Bell, the IT Manager.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Click Add new user.

4\. In the dialog box that appears, create your company's IT Manager user account as follows:

-   First name: *Alex*
-   Last name: *Bell*
-   Primary email: *alex.bell@yourdomain*

Tip: If your account has multiple domains associated with it, you will see a domain drop-down list so you can choose the correct domain for each new user. The domain is the part of the user's email address that appears after the @ symbol.

-   Each user is assigned to an organizational unit. At this stage of the course we have just one single top level organization so Alex will by default be placed into that organization. We will discuss organizational structure later in this course.
-   Leave the secondary email and phone number fields empty.
-   You can assign a temporary, randomly generated password or manually enter a temporary password. Note: Passwords must be at least 8 characters long and cannot exceed 100 characters. Either way, it's best practice to ensure that the new user changes this when signing in for the first time so ensure that 'Ask for a password change at next sign in' is enabled. For this exercise, allow G Suite to generate the temporary password.

5\. Click ADD NEW USER to create Alex's account.

Congratulations! You've added your first user in your new domain!

Notice the 'Show Password' link in the dialog box. This allows you to see the temporary password generated. You can also copy the password to your clipboard using the 'Click to copy password' link. Alternatively, click MORE ACTIONS from where you can either email or print the login details for your new user.

5\. Click DONE.

## Help Center resources

-   [Add users individually](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33310).
