## Introduction

You've learned how to add users manually; however, when adding many users at once, this method is quite time consuming. Let's see how to bulk upload multiple users at once.

## Scenario

You receive this mail from the IT Manager, Alex:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*Thanks for creating my G Suite account. Now our next task is to get the rest of our user accounts created. Below is a list of people.*

| First name | Last name | Email address | Employee title |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Ellie | Gray | ellie.gray@*yourdomain* | Executive Assistant |
| Jon | Baird | jon.baird@*yourdomain* | HR Contractor |
| Lars | Ericsson | lars.ericsson@*yourdomain* | HR Manager |
| Samantha | Morse | samantha.morse@*yourdomain* | CEO |
| Tim | Lee | tim.lee@*yourdomain* | Finance Manager |
| Tom | Edison | tom.edison@*yourdomain* | Support Engineer |
| Will | Marconi | will.marconi@*yourdomain* | Support Engineer |

*Can you create these user accounts?*

*Thanks,*

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

#### Download the template file

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Click Bulk upload users then click the CSV template link. This will download a blank file with all the required columns to your local machine. Leave this dialog box open to upload the file after editing.  

#### Add user information

4\. Open the CSV file in a spreadsheet application or a text editor if you prefer.

5\. Edit the file and add the user data. Copy the user information into the CSV file from the table Alex provided.

The file contains a column for each attribute that appears on the user profile in the admin console and in Gmail contacts.

The following columns are mandatory:

-   First Name
-   Last Name
-   Email Address
-   Password (enter *hellohello1*)
-   Org Unit Path (For this exercise, enter the forward slash symbol / into this column. This represents the root organization)

Don't forget to update the domain in the email addresses. The other columns aren't mandatory, so you can enter values or leave them blank. However, Alex has also provided a column for Employee Title so you should complete that column also.

#### Upload the file

6\. Once the editing is complete, save a copy of the file as a CSV file back to your local machine. To do this in Google Sheets while you still have the file open in Sheets, click File > Download As > Comma Separated Values (.csv, current sheet).

7\. Return to the 'Bulk upload users' dialog box, click ATTACH CSV and browse to the edited spreadsheet you just saved locally, then click UPLOAD to initiate the creation of the user accounts.

-   If your file has formatting errors, a warning prompts that you may need to re-edit the file.
-   If successful, the progress of the upload will be reported in the YOUR TASKS list at the top of the page. You'll also receive an email report later.

8\. The new users may take a couple of minutes to appear in the user list. If you don't see them right away, try refreshing the screen. Review the list of users and explore the user settings.

Congratulations! You created multiple users at once!

## Notes

1.  It can take up to 24 hours for new user accounts to appear in the searchable domain directory.
2.  If you're uploading more than 500 user accounts, you can optimize the experience by splitting your uploads into smaller batches.

## Help center resources

-   [Add several users at once](https://support.google.com/a/answer/40057)
