## Introduction

As we have seen G Suite accounts can be created manually or in bulk. Either method works well but these methods are more applicable to smaller customers where less frequent user maintenance is needed.

Larger organizations often require a more automated approach to account management. Such customers may choose to deploy Google Cloud Directory Sync (GCDS) which can provision G Suite accounts directly from Microsoft® Active Directory® or LDAP server. In addition to account creation GCDS ensures that users, groups, and shared contacts in G Suite are synchronized with updates that are made to the local directory.

GCDS never modifies local directory information. Updates are only made to the Google Cloud Directory to reflect local changes.

## Who should use GCDS

GCDS is particularly relevant to organizations that have a pre-established directory. Using GCDS removes the need to separately manage the Cloud Directory as it performs a one-way synchronization ensuring Google domain data matches the local directory at all times.

## Video demonstration

GCDS runs on the customer's own network so we are unable to provide a practice instance as part of this training. Instead, watch the video lecture, which immediately follows this reading, to see how GCDS is installed and configured in a typical customer environment.

## Help Center Resources

Organizations that want to learn more about GCDS should read the following articles.

-   [About Google Cloud Directory Sync](https://support.google.com/a/answer/106368) helps you understand how GCDS works and the key benefits of GCDS.
-   Review the [What is Synced](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6120130) article to see what data types can be synchronized with your Google domain.
-   The [GCDS FAQ](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7177266) lists many of the most popular questions asked when considering the use of GCDS.
