## Introduction

Welcome to the G Suite Administrator Specialization. By enrolling in this course, you'll be joining a huge, international community of new G Suite administrators who are helping their organizations work in a new collaborative fashion using G Suite. You and your team can begin using Gmail, Calendar, Drive, and other core G Suite services, as well as additional services like Google+ or Blogger and more.

## What is G Suite?

G Suite is a package of cloud-based services that can provide your company or school with a whole new way to work together online -- not just using email and chat, but over video conferences, social media, real-time document collaborations, and more.

## What to expect during this training course?

During this training course, you will be presented with a series of lessons that will take you through the fundamental tools, features, and processes that you will use as a G Suite administrator. This course is meant to be an introduction to these tools. The lessons in this course include hands-on exercises and helpful knowledge base links.

In order to pass the quizzes, reading the provided help center links and remember details from the exercises is advised.

## Costs

When you start the course, you will sign up for a trial G Suite Enterprise account. Each G Suite account requires at least one registered domain. You will purchase the domain as part of the sign up flow so you will own it. If you already own a domain, you can use that one, but please note that the instructions here assume you are purchasing the domain as part of the sign up process. This introductory course does not teach how to associate an existing domain with G Suite, although we do provide links to the G Suite Help Center which does document the requirements and the process.

The trial G Suite account is valid for 14 days. No charges for G Suite are made to your credit card until that period has ended. You must ensure that you CANCEL YOUR SUBSCRIPTION before the trial period ends to avoid and charges. This is very IMPORTANT so don't forget!

## Help Center resources

-   See [About your free G Suite trial](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6388094) and [Cancel G Suite](https://support.google.com/a/answer/1257646 "Cancel G Suite") for details on your trial domain and how to cancel your subscription before the trial ends.
-   The [G Suite Administrator Help Center](https://support.google.com/a#topic=29157) is our one-stop source of truth that you can utilize during this training and beyond as you get accustomed to being a new G Suite administrator.
-   You can also visit and save the video playlist [What's New for G Suite Admins](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLU8ezI8GYqs4NSPPqm9hkdWPziVh_O3EC) on the G Suite YouTube channel.
-   We also recommend that you join the G Suite Admin community at our[ Google Cloud Connect website](https://connect.googleforwork.com/login.jspa?referer=%2Fcommunity%2Fcustomers%2Fgsuite%2Fgsuite-admins-only).
