## Introduction

You can monitor G Suite usage via the admin console and Reports API. For the purpose of this exercise, we'll focus on admin console.

As an administrator, you will want to examine potential security risks, measure user collaboration, track who signs in and when, analyze administrator activity, and much more. The admin console provided tools that you can use to analyze usage data. Reports have interactive graphics and tables that show broad, domain-level data alongside granular, user-level details.

You can hover your cursor over graphics to see specific data, set filters to adjust the scope of the data each report covers, and click table cells to see accompanying graphical representations.

You should note however that because you have only recently set up your domain, there will be limited data or no data available to view in many reports.

In this exercise you will explore some of the more common reports that you can use to determine G Suite usage in your organization.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Reports icon.

#### View a summary of user activity

The default view gives you a quick overview (highlights) of your user's app usage and file sharing activity along with high level summaries of other reports such as the user security report. From here you can adjust the report's time frame and use the links provided to drill into more detailed reports.

#### View and customize the security report

3\. Click on Users > Security.

The main report on is split into two sections: a chart above which shows changes in a category over time, and a table below which shows per-user information. On the left hand side of the page you will see the Filters pane. There are also a number of icons on the top right of the page from where you can:

-   Download the report or export to Google Sheets
-   Choose which columns to display (vertical column bars)
-   Show/Hide the filter pane. (horizontal striped triangle)

4\. Change the columns which display in the report. Note how by adjusting the columns this will also change the chart above to display a representation of that column's data.

5\. Take a look at the filters pane. From here, you can set your date criteria. You can also filter by OU or user, and add multiple column constraints. Try searching on the 'Employees' OU where the 'User Account Status' is 'Active'. This filter should return Ellie, Jon, Tom and Will.

#### View trends and administrative data

As the administrator, you can use app reports to review trends or see an overview of administrative information. The reports generate a series of charts and graphs that display information for all users in your organization. To view user-level data instead, see [Account activity reports](https://support.google.com/a/answer/4580176 "Accoun activity reports").

6\. From the Reports page, click Apps and select a report. See [Understand app reports data](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6072773?hl=en&ref_topic=7558954#understand "Understand app reports data").

7\. Take a look at the Gmail report. This gives insights into metrics such as delivered mail, spam and encrypted messages. Now look at the Accounts report. This shows metrics that include users status and storage used by app.

#### View your users' account status and activity

You may want to get a consolidated view of user status and account activity. The account activity report page gives access to all data from the User account status, Admin status, and 2-Step Verification enrollment reports. It also shows details of Google Drive and Gmail usage.

8\. From the Reports page, click Users > Account activity. You'll note that this is very similar to the security report where you can adjust the columns displayed and set filters and conditions for the report. Try filtering the report an look for users with the Super Administrator role.

## Help Center resources

-   [Highlights report](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6000244 "Highlights report")
-   [App reports on your whole organization](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6072773 "App reports on your whole organization")
-   [Account activity reports](https://support.google.com/a/answer/4580176 "Accoun activity reports")
