## Introduction

As the administrator, you want to be aware of changes being made to your organization.

The audit section allows you to quickly review the various events which are generated by administrators, users and services and help give you a deeper understanding of how your users are interacting with your services.

You should note however that because you have only recently set up your domain, there will be limited data or no data available to view in many reports.

In this exercise you will take a brief look at the audit logs available to you for your organization.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Reports icon.

3\. Click Audit > Admin and explore the Admin audit log. From here you can see a record of all actions that have been performed in the admin console. For example, you can see user creations, changes made to service settings, etc. Th filter pane allows you to filter by OU or user or admin account. You can also filter by date and event name.

4\. Start to type *User Creation* into the 'Event name' field in the filter pane. Note how G Suite auto populates the list of events that match what you are typing. Choose *User Creation* and click SEARCH. You can now see all the user creation events.

5\. Click RESET to clear the search filter.

6\. Go back to the Reports page and click Audit > Calendar. From here you can track changes to calendars, events, and subscriptions in the Google Calendar audit log. Notice how the filter pane choices have changed from the previous report. The filter pane now allows you to filter by fields that are relevant to calendar such as calendar ID, event title or ID, calendar API event, etc...

7\. Explore some of the other audit reports and you will see how the filters provided are relevant to the type of data shown in the current report.

## Help Center resources

-   [Understand audit logs](https://support.google.com/a/topic/9027054 "Understand audit logs")
