## Introduction

Google Drive is a way for your users to access and share all their files, folders, and Google documents at any time and on any device.

As the administrator, you determine whether users can share their documents outside your organization, whether they can access documents created outside your organization, and the default visibility level for new documents.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from Sam Morse:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*I have been thinking about how I want our people to share documents inside and outside the company. I want everyone to be able to share documents with our clients and partners, but not be able to publish openly on the web.*

*I also want to build a strong collaboration culture, so inside the company I want everyone to be able to have permission to see each others documents but only if they have the link first. Can you make this happen?*

*Regards,*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Drive and Docs service.

3\. Click Sharing settings. The current settings display for your organization.

Before you change any settings, read [Set Drive users' sharing permissions](https://support.google.com/a/answer/60781 "Set Drive users' sharing permissions") to understand what each setting indicates and the impacts of changing them. Review [Share and work with others](https://support.google.com/docs/topic/4671185 "Share and work with others") to get the user's perspective.

4\. Sam wants users to be able to share outside the organization, but does not want users to publish anything to the web. To achieve this, click Sharing options to edit the settings.

5\. Set the 'Sharing outside of *yourdomain*' field to *ON*. Files owned by users in your organization can be shared externally. This setting applies to shared drives as well.

6 Deselect the check box for 'Allow users in yourdomain to publish files on the web or make them visible to the world as public or unlisted files'.

7\. Click SAVE.

8\. Sam also wants users to collaborate internally through sharing links so scroll down the Drive and Docs service settings page and click on Link Sharing.

9\. The default setting for this option is *OFF*. To change the file visibility so that anyone in the company can access a document once they have the link, select *ON - Anyone at yourdomain with the link*.

This option is recommended for two reasons:

-   Allows for easy sharing, but offers protection from outside the organization, because users must sign in to access the shared documents.
-   Documents with this visibility won't normally be found in search results.

10\. Click SAVE.

## Notes

1.  In the sharing settings area you may also have seen an option to allow sharing with whitelisted domains. This is very useful if your partners/customers have compatible domains as you can allow external sharing but restrict it to a names set of domains.
2.  Sharing settings discussed here override shared drive external sharing settings. If you disable sharing outside of your organization, manager of shared drives cannot override this setting even if they are allowed to change shared drive settings.
