## Introduction

There comes a time in every administrator's job where someone will approach you, in a panic and desperate to recover lost data. The good news is that G Suite has a way for you to restore a user's data for a certain period of time.

You can restore a user's deleted Google Drive files for a date range you specify, as long as the files were deleted within the past 25 days. This helps ensure that, if a user accidentally deleted important files, those files are not permanently lost.

In this exercise you will log into as a G Suite user, create a file and then delete it. You will then restore that file as the administrator.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from Timothy:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*I don't know how it's happened, but a really important finance report ("Super Important Budget") has vanished. It's gone. Even if I search, I can't find it, but it was there 3 days ago. It would take months of work to recreate it. I emptied the trash yesterday; it must have been in there somehow. Can you please help?!*

*Thanks*

*Timothy Lee, Finance Manager*

## Directions

#### Permanently delete a file

1\. Sign into G Suite as Timothy Lee at [drive.google.com](https://drive.google.com/ "drive.google.com").

2\. Create Google sheet named *Super Important Budget*. Close the sheet. This will take you to your 'My Drive'.

3\. Drag the sheet to the Bin on the left, or right click on the sheet and click Remove.

4\. Open the Bin. You should see the sheet you just deleted. Now click the Empty bin link. Alternatively, right click on the sheet and click Delete forever.

5\. Click EMPTY BIN or DELETE FOREVER to confirm.

#### Recover the deleted file

6\. Sign out of G Suite and sign back in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

7\. Click the Users icon.

8\. Locate *Timothy Lee* in the list and hover over his name, then click More > Restore Data.

9\. A dialog box will now be presented where you can enter a from and to date range. Complete the date values and ensure that 'Application' is set to *Drive*. Then click RESTORE.

#### Verify the file has been restored

10\. Repeat Step 1 and sign into Drive as Timothy. You should see the Super Important Budget file in Timothy's My Drive.

## Help Center resources

-   [Find or recover a file](https://support.google.com/drive/answer/1716222 "Find or recover a file")
-   [Restore a G Suite user's Gmail and Drive data](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6052340 "Restore a G Suite user's Gmail and Drive data")
