## Introduction

Through offline access users are able to view and edit Google documents, spreadsheets, and presentations even when they don't have an Internet connection. As the administrator, it's important for you to know the options and limitations of Drive offline access.

## Scenario

You receive the following email from Sam:

*Hello G Suite Admin,*

*I'm traveling next week but need to prepare for a meeting. I've been told that I can have offline access to my documents in Drive even when I'm on the plane. I mostly want to view and edit presentations and spreadsheets.*

*Can you look into it for me? I'll have my Windows laptop with Firefox with me. How do I set it up?*

*Thanks*

*Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Drive and Docs service.

3\. Click Features and Applications.

4\. Click Offline to edit the offline settings.

5\. Ensure that *Allow users to enable offline access (recommended)* is selected.

6\. Click SAVE if you made changes in the previous step.

Sam can now enable offline access to Docs. Review [Work on Google Docs, Sheets, & Slides offline](https://support.google.com/docs/answer/6388102 "Work on Google Docs, Sheets, & Slides offline") and then answer the following questions.

-   Can Sam use Firefox to access her docs offline?
-   What app does Sam need to install?
-   What steps will Sam have to take to have offline access for her trip?
-   How can Sam view the docs once offline?
-   Can Sam edit the docs she wants to use on the flight?
-   If Sam has another device, is it set up automatically?

7\. You should now advise Sam of the steps she needs to take to complete the offline configuration. An example email is below:

*Hey Sam,*

*I've looked into offline access for you. You must download and install the Chrome browser and offline extension on your laptop. Instructions can be found here to setup offline access - *[*Work on Google Docs, Sheets, & Slides offline*](https://support.google.com/docs/answer/6388102 "Work on Google Docs, Sheets, & Slides offline")*. It should only take a minute.*

*Once you've enabled offline access to view your files when traveling, open Chrome and visit drive.google.com. The offline version of your Drive will load. Then you can then view and edit your presentations & spreadsheets without an Internet connection.*

*Additionally, if you want offline access on other devices, you need to set this up on each device individually.*

*Please let me know if you have any questions.*

*Regards,*

*G Suite Admin*
