When you signed up for your G Suite account you associated it with a primary domain.

In addition to your primary domain you can:

-   Add up to 20 domain aliases to the primary domain
-   Add an additional 599 secondary domains

Domain alias: A domain alias gives each user the primary domain an additional email address. For example, let's say you have a primary domain *yourcompany.com* and you then purchase *yourcompany.co.uk*. All users in *yourcompany.com* can now send and receive email from/to *yourcompany.co.uk*. There are no additional license costs for a domain alias as there are no new accounts created.

Secondary domains: This a new domain which you purchase into which you add new users each of which requires a license. Secondary domains are useful for managing separate teams or businesses at different domains.

In this lesson you'll learn about adding domains to your G Suite account. Ensure that you read through the Help Center articles linked below.

## Notes

1.  Just like you did for your primary domain, you must verify ownership of any domain alias or secondary domain you wish to add to your G Suite account.

## Help Center articles

-   [What is a domain?](https://support.google.com/a/answer/177483 "What is a domain?")
-   [Add more domains to your G Suite or Cloud Identity account](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7502379 "Add more domains to your G Suite or Cloud Identity account")
-   [Remove a domain or domain alias](https://support.google.com/a/answer/183028 "Remove a domain or domain alias")
-   [Domain name basics](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2573637 "Domain name basics")
