## Introduction

This exercise can only be completed if you own another domain that you wish to add to your G Suite account. If you do not own a domain, just read through the instructions to familiarise yourself with the process.

Your organization is preparing to expand their business and will be purchasing a domain that they'll use as an alias.

This means that each user in the primary domain will automatically have an alias in the new domain. For example, Lars Ericsson can receive email as *lars.ericsson@yourdomain.com *or as *lars.ericsson@yourdomain.org*. All of his messages will go to the same inbox.

This exercise will give you practice adding a domain or an alias so that you understand the process before you actually purchase a new domain.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Domains icon.

3\. Click Add/remove domains or the Manage Domains icon.

If you purchased your domain as part of the sign up flow, before you continue, click the Advanced DNS settings section and copy/paste your DNS account information to a text file. Then click the Sign in to DNS console link to bring up your registrar's sign in page now. You will very likely need this later.

4\. Click ADD A DOMAIN OR DOMAIN ALIAS.

5\. Select 'Add a domain alias of *yourdomain'' or '*Add another domain'. Note: The steps that follow are the same regardless of the option you choose.

6\. Enter the domain alias of *yourdomain.org* and click CONTINUE AND VERIFY DOMAIN OWNERSHIP.

7\. Verification steps can vary depending upon the domain name provider. In some cases Google will redirect you to sign into your registrar and can verify your domain automatically. In other cases you will need to follow the instructions on the screen and manually update your DNS records. These would typically be:

-   Select your domain name provider (registrar)
-   Add a Google site verification TXT record to your DNS records
-   Verify from the admin console.

As you can see, adding a new domain or domain alias is straightforward.

## Help Center resources

-   [Limitations with multiple domains](https://support.google.com/a/answer/182081 "Limitations with multiple domains")
-   [Multiple domains FAQ](https://support.google.com/a/answer/175747 "Multiple domains FAQ")
