## Introduction

While it's useful to view events in the admin console audit log, it's probably more helpful to be alerted immediately of significant changes, such as when a user is deleted or suspended, or if settings are changed.

You can receive email alerts when something important happens in your organization, such as a suspicious sign-in attempt, a compromised mobile device, or when another administrator changes settings. When you turn on an alert for an activity, you'll receive an email each time that activity happens, up to 25 emails in 2 hours.

In this exercise, you'll examine G Suite's predefined alerts and see how to create a custom email alerts for when something important happens in your organization.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Reports icon.

#### System defined alerts

3\. Click Manage alerts from the left hand menu. This is where you will see your custom alerts but at this time there should be no alerts listed. At the top of the page you should also see a link to G Suite's system defined rules. Click the VIEW SYSTEM DEFINED RULES link.

From here you can see the predefined rules and the status and action to take for each rule.

4\. Scroll through the predefined rules to see the different types of alerts you can receive.

5\. Click on any alert to see more details. Hover over the 'Rule details and scope', 'Conditions' and 'Actions' cards. Notice how you can only change actions to take when the alert is triggered. For example, you can enable/disable the alert and change the alert email recipients.

#### Create a custom alert

In addition to the predefined alerts you can create your own alerts by applying search criteria to an existing report or audit log. Let's say you want to be notified when anyone is granted an admin privilege.

6\. From the Reports page, click Audit > Admin.

7\. Start to type *Admin Privileges Grant* into the 'Event name' field in the filter pane and select it from the list.

8\. Click SET ALERT.

9\. In the dialog box enter a name and check the *Super Administrator(s)* box in the 'Deliver to' field and click SAVE.

10\. Return to the Reports page and click Manage alerts. You should see your new alert listed. From here you can use the slider to enable and disable the alert. You can also click on an alert from where you can edit or delete it.

11\. Optionally, grant one of your user's the Super Admin role and monitor your inbox for a notification.

## Notes

1.  In addition to the predefined and custom alerts discussed in this exercise, G Suite includes an alert center from where you can view notifications about potential issues within your domain, and take action to resolve the issues and protect your organization from security threats. For more details see the link below.

## Help Center resources

-   [Administrator email alerts](https://support.google.com/a/answer/3230421 "Administrator email alerts")
-   [About the alert center](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9105393 "About the alert center")
