## Introduction

G Suite allows you to sort through the last month of email delivery activity and evaluate message transit.

This is useful for tracking a sender or recipient's missing messages, such as those that have been quarantined as spam or otherwise routed incorrectly. Use the Email Log Search feature to troubleshoot how Gmail policies affect mail flow.

You start by performing a search of the log, then you examine the results - analyse route and delivery states. You can also see post delivery status such as message labels.

In this exercise you will explore the Gmail Log Search options available in the admin console. Ensure you read the Help Center resources.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Reports icon.

3\. Click Audit > Email Log Search.

4\. Explore the search options:

-   Date (You can search for messages up to 30 days old)
-   Search by sender or recipient or their IP addresses
-   Search by subject or message ID

5\. Perform a search for messages received by yourself in the last 7 days. Note: It can take an hour for messages to be logged.

6\. Click on any valid message. From here you can view message and recipient details. You can also view the post delivery message details such as read status, labels, etc. Note: You cannot see the actual message.

## Notes

1.  You can search for messages older than 30 days but you must know the message ID and detailed delivery logs are not available for messages over 30 days.

## Help Center resources

-   [Track message delivery with Email Log Search](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2618874 "Track message delivery with Email Log Search")
-   [View Email Log Search result details](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2618876 "View Email Log Search result details")
-   [Interpret Email Log Search results](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2623280 "Interpret Email Log Search results")
-   [Post-delivery message status](https://support.google.com/a/answer/2623280#post-delivery "Post-delivery message status")
