## Introduction

Welcome to the third course in the G Suite Administration specialization - G Suite Security.

In this course you will focus on the various aspects of G Suite Security including user password policies and how to enable and enforce two step verification (2SV) for your users. You will learn about application security and understand how to whitelist and block API access to your account. You will see how G Suite can easily be integrated with a number of predefined 3rd party applications. You will also become familiar with the SSO options in G Suite. Finally you will understand how to spot potential security risks within your organization and learn how to address them using the tools available in the admin console.

In order to pass the quizzes, reading the provided help center links and remember details from the exercises is advised.

## Prerequisites

This course is the third of four courses in the G Suite Administration specialization. You should complete the 'Introduction to G Suite' and 'Managing G Suite' courses before taking this course.

If you have completed the previous courses but no longer have your trial domain, you should complete the exercise that immediately follows this reading before moving onto the next lesson. If your trial domain is still valid you can go straight to [Introduction to Common Security Settings](https://www.coursera.org/learn/g-suite-security/supplement/0Ga0f/introduction-to-common-security-settings "Introduction to Common Security Settings").
