## Introduction

In this exercise you will check and configure end user access to Gmail as per company policy. You will also explore the other settings available that control end user access.

## Scenario

Your company has a strong focus on the confidentiality of their corporate information. Sam, the CEO has become aware that it is common practice for contractor staff to use their own personal email accounts to conduct business. Some contractors have created a Gmail filter which forwards all mail received to their personal account and Sam would like to stop this practice. You receive the following email from Alex Bell.

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*As you know we are working on a very confidential widget at the moment. To reduce the risks of leaks can you please stop the practice where contractors are auto-forwarding all company mail to their personal account.*

*Can you also check that we have disabled the use of POP and IMAP with Gmail. We want to ensure that with the exception of those users who are allowed to use G Suite Sync, all other users access Gmail using web interface only.*

*Thanks, *

*Alex Bell, IT Manager*

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Apps icon, click the G Suite icon and then click the Gmail service.

3\. Click End User access. You may need to scroll down to see this section.

4\. Click on your top level organization on the left and ensure that 'POP and IMAP access' is disabled. Note: The value for 'Disable POP and IMAP access for all users' should be set to *ON*.

5\. If you made changes, click SAVE.

6\. Click the Contractors OU.

7\. Click on the *Automatic Forwarding* row and ensure *Allow users to automatically forward incoming email to another address* box is deselected. Any existing forwarding rules will now stop working.

8\. Click OVERRIDE (you are overriding the inherited setting from the top level organization).

Before we move on, let's explore the settings on this particular page in a little more detail.

#### POP and IMAP access

In addition to accessing G Suite mail from the Gmail web interface, users can send and receive mail from their favorite desktop client. Depending on the client, they can use either the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) or Post Office Protocol (POP). With POP the client contacts the mail server, downloads the mail and then deletes it from the server. When using IMAP messages aren't downloaded until you click on a message, and attachments aren't automatically downloaded. This makes it suitable when users have multiple devices but are not using the native Gmail web interface.

If you disable POP and IMAP access, your users will not be able to access POP and IMAP settings in the Gmail interface and users cannot access their mail via POP or IMAP even if they originally had it on.

#### G Suite Sync

G Suite Sync for Microsoft Outlook (GSSMO) is a plugin for Outlook that provides email, calendar and contacts synchronization with G Suite. GSSMO uses the G Suite APIs to synchronize data. It can be installed by an individual user and it is also available as an enterprise installer.

#### Automatic Forwarding

By default, users can set up a rule or filter which will forward incoming messages to another address. In this section you have the option of disabling this feature. If you disable this feature any existing forwarding rules/filters will stop working and users will not longer see the option in their Gmail settings.

#### Image URL proxy whitelist

When a user opens a message Gmail uses Google's secure proxy servers to serve images included in these messages. This protects you against image-based security vulnerabilities. The potential downside is that images that are dependent on internal IPs and sometimes cookies are broken. To fix broken images and cookies you can create a whitelist to bypass the Google proxy servers. However, Google strongly recommends against the use of the Image URL proxy whitelist as this can leave your users vulnerable to malicious attack.

Unlike the other settings described here which can be applied at the OU level, this setting applies to the entire organization.

#### Gmail Offline Chrome plugin

This plugin has been replaced with Gmail web offline which allows Gmail to run natively offline in the Chrome browser. Gmail web offline is managed from Gmail > User settings.

#### Allow per-user outbound gateways

Gmail offers users the option to associate additional email addresses with their accounts to create custom From addresses. For example, *user@yourdomain* might also have an email account *user@partnerdomain*. When the user sends or responds to a message from Gmail, they want to be able to choose which email address appears in the From field. By default the Gmail servers will deliver all mail regardless of the From address. Some reasons why you may want to allow per-user outbound gateways are:

-   Using an outbound gateway ensures that the same mail server delivers all messages from *partnerdomain*, regardless of whether it was composed in Gmail or another email client application.
-   Recipients can verify that the message is valid by confirming that it comes from the proper mail server for *partnerdomain*.
-   The *partnerdomain* mail server has a record of the mail sent from its domain using Gmail.
-   Using an outbound gateway can also prevent the appearance of "on behalf of" addresses in the From field. When a user sends a message from an alternate From address through the G Suite mail servers, some recipient mail applications display the name of the sender as *user@partnerdomain on behalf of user@yourdomain.*

One disadvantage is:

-   Mail sent from the *partnerdomain* is not handled by the G Suite mail servers or your domain's outbound gateway, which can be what you want.

#### Unintended external reply warning

Gmail detects if an external recipient in an email response is not someone a user interacts with regularly, or is not present in a user's Contacts. When this setting is enabled, the user receives a warning when they send the message.

## Help Center resources

-   [Turn POP and IMAP on and off for users](https://support.google.com/a/answer/105694 "Turn POP and IMAP on and off for users")
-   [Set up an image URL proxy whitelist](https://support.google.com/a/answer/3299041 "Set up an image URL proxy whitelist")
-   [Work offline in Gmail](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7684186 "Work offline in Gmail")
