## Introduction

In this exercise you will create two groups from the admin console. Read through the scenario and directions below in order to practice creating admin managed groups.

## Scenario

You receive this mail from Sam, the CEO:

*Hey G Suite Admin,*

*We would like to have a group email address where I (and only I) can send company wide announcements to everyone.*

*I would also like to setup a team group for the use of the executive and managers only.*

*Can you please create these groups for us? Thanks,*

*Regards, Sam Morse, CEO*

## Directions

#### Create the group for all employees

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Groups icon.

3\. Click Create group and enter the following information:

-   Name: *All employees*
-   Description: *Internal mailing list for everyone.*
-   Group email: *everyone@yourdomain*

4\. Click NEXT.

5\. Set the 'Access type' to *Announcement only*. Anyone in the organization can view topics but only managers and owners can post.

6\. Click CREATE GROUP.

7\. Click the Add Members to All employees link.

8\. In the resulting page, click on the yellow circle with the + sign to add members and then click the Advanced link at the bottom of the 'Add member to All employees' dialog box.

9\. Check the 'Add all current and future users of <your company> to this group with All Email setting' box and click ADD TO GROUP. New users will be automatically added to the group as they join your organization.

10\. Refresh the screen, you should see the member list has one entry called 'All users in the organization'. Note: New users will be automatically added to the group as they join your organization.

11\. Repeat Step 8 but this time enter Sam's email address. She will be added to the member list with the Member role.

12\. Hover over Sam and click the down arrow in the *Role* column and click Manager to make her the group manager.

13\. Click SAVE.

Sam can now email everyone in the organization by emailing *everyone@yourdomain.*

#### Create the management group

14\. Return to the Groups page and create a new group as follows:

-   Name: *Management*
-   Description: *Executive group*
-   Group email: *management@yourdomain*

15\. Set the 'Access type' to *Restricted* (Only members can post and view topics), create the group and add the following members:

-   Samantha Morse (CEO)
-   Alex Bell (IT Manager)
-   Lars Ericsson (HR Manager)

16\. Change Sam's role to be a group manager so she can add new members as needed.

The management team now have a private group in which to collaborate.

#### Verify group settings

17\. Sign out and sign back in to G Suite at [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com") as *samantha.morse@yourdomain*.

18\. Send a message to *everyone@yourdomain* and another message to *management@yourdomain*.

19\. Open the Groups for Business service at [groups.google.com](https://groups.google.com/ "groups.google.com").

20\. Click My groups. You should see the both groups listed. Open each group in turn and verify that your messages were delivered.

21\. Sign out and sign back in to G Suite at [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com") as *mark.jones@yourdomain*. You should see the message sent by Sam to everyone in your inbox.

22\. Send a message to *everyone@yourdomain* and another message to *management@yourdomain*.

23\. Refresh your inbox (you may need to do this a few times). You do not have permissions to post to either group so should receive a delivery failure report for each of the two messages.

24\. Sign out and sign back in to G Suite at [mail.google.com](https://mail.google.com/ "mail.google.com") as *lars.ericsson@yourdomain*. Lars is a member of the Management group so you should see both messages sent by Sam earlier in your inbox.

25\. Send a message to *everyone@yourdomain* and another message to *management@yourdomain*.

26\. Refresh your inbox (you may need to do this a few times). You should receive a delivery failure report for the message sent to *everyone@yourdomain* only.

27\. Open the Groups for Business service at [groups.google.com](https://groups.google.com/ "groups.google.com").

28\. Click My groups. You should see the Management group listed. Open the group and verify that your message was delivered.

## Notes

1\. Administrators, even if not members of a group have all privileges in the admin console.

2\. Using the Groups for Business service, your users can also create their own groups. They can create simple email lists, web forums, Q&A groups and collaborative inboxes. As the administrator you can see and manage any of these user created groups from the admin console.

## Help Center resources

-   [Groups](https://support.google.com/a/topic/25838?hl=en&ref_topic=9197)
-   [Ways to create groups](https://support.google.com/a/answer/33343?hl=en&ref_topic=6059322)
-   [Add or remove group members](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6191469?hl=en&ref_topic=6059322)
-   [Set up groups for your team](https://support.google.com/a/answer/172473?hl=en&ref_topic=25841)
