## Introduction

You can set up SSO using Google as the identity provider (IdP) using Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML). This allows the user to use their managed Google account credentials to sign in to enterprise cloud applications offered by other parties. You can establish SSO for your cloud applications through:

-   Configuring one of over 200 third-party pre-integrated cloud applications as your service provider (SP)

OR

-   Setting up your own custom SAML app for cloud applications that aren't in the pre-integrated apps list

In this exercise, you'll setup and enable SSO with enterprise cloud services for your organization with Google as the IdP.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

Before we look at the cloud applications that have already been configured to use Google as an IdP, let's take a look at the Security section.

2\. Click the Security icon, scroll down and click on Set up single sign-on (SSO) section.

This section has two parts. The first section is used where Google is the IdP. Note that there are two URLs: the 'SSO URL' and an 'Entity ID' URL. These URLs will be required by the SP along with the Google certificate that is also shown on this page. These Google URLs are used by the SP as a user authenticates to their service. The certificate is very important as this is used to establish trust between Google and the SP.

3\. Return the admin console's home page and click the Apps icon, then click SAML apps.

4\. Click the yellow circle with the + sign to enable SSO for a SAML application.

From here you can choose a pre-integrated app or you can setup your own custom app. The list of services shown represent the pre-integrated cloud applications that have already been configured for SSO and just need some minor customization from you. Clicking on a service will take you through a short setup wizard to activate SSO for that service within your organization. The setup wizards will vary slightly from app to app but as these are pre-integrated apps much of the information will pre-populate for you.

5\. Click on 15Five to walk through the 15Five wizard. Notice how the first page populates with the 'SSO URL' and the 'Entity ID' URL together with the 'Certificate' file that you saw in Step 2 above. You will need to copy the URLs and download the certificate as these need to be added add these to the SP's configuration later to complete the process. We won't do that here however as the intention of this exercise is to allow you to become familiar with the process only.

Note: Instead of copying the URLs and downloading the certificate file you can download the 'IDP metadata' file. This is an XML file that contains both URLs and certificate bundled into one file.

6\. Download the 'IDP metadata' file and open it in a text editor so you can see the certificate and URLs. Tip: The* idpId* value in the URLs is actually your unique G Suite account number.

7\. Click NEXT. The 'Application Name', 'app-id' and 'Description' fields will be automatically populated for you. If you were adding your own custom app you would need to complete these values but pre-integrated apps should have these already.

8\. Click on the Learn more link. See how this takes you to detailed setup instructions for this particular service.

9\. Click NEXT. As above this final screen will populate for you automatically. There are three URLs at the top of the page. These are the SP URLs that are used by Google as part of the authentication process. These will populate for you but you should replace *{yourdomain} *with your G Suite domain name.

10\. Click FINISH. You will see a prompt reminding you that you'll need to upload Google URLs and certificate to the SP's administration panel to complete the configuration process.

11\. Click OK. This will take you to the 15Five service settings.

12\. Return to the SAML apps list and you will see 15Five in the list. It should be OFF for everyone. You can use the ellipses (three vertical dots) at the end of the row to turn the service on and off.

At this point you should refer to the instructions specific to this application to complete the setup process. These instructions can be found in the Learn more link and will vary from app to app but are typically:

-   Setup the app as the SP - Log into application console and upload the Google certificate downloaded earlier and complete the Entity ID and SSO URL values.
-   Enable the app in the G Suite admin console.
-   Verify SSO is working - Attempt to log into the application. You should be redirected to the G Suite sign in page. After your credentials are authenticated, you are redirected back to the application.

13\. Now repeat Step 4 but this time, click SETUP MY OWN CUSTOM APP and complete the details to add a fictitious app to you account. Note how the information required is the same as above but nothing is pre-populated for you.

#### User provisioning

Some services support user provisioning which allows the service provider to sync their user lists with your G Suite directory. Setup will vary from services to service. You can find out more about user provisioning for each service in the [Automated user provisioning](https://support.google.com/a/topic/6400789 "Automated user provisioning") article.

## Notes

1\. To enable SSO for one of the apps already identified by Google, your organization will have to have an account with that service.

## Help Center resources

-   [Using SAML to set up federated SSO](https://support.google.com/a/topic/7417510 "Using SAML to set up federated SSO") (Pre-integrated apps)
-   [Set up your own custom SAML application](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6087519 "Set up your own custom SAML application")
-   [SAML service provider URLs](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6301827 "SAML service provider URLs")
