## Introduction

In this exercise you will create and configure an LDAP client in your admin console.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Apps icon, then click the LDAP icon.

3\. Click ADD CLIENT. Enter an 'LDAP client name' and optionally add a 'Description'. Tip: You can also use the description to add contact details or to specify the owner of the application.

4\. Click CONTINUE.

5\. You must now configure the client's permissions. The allowed permissions are described below:

-   Access level for verifying a user's credentials. You may grant the client access to the entire domain or to one or more organizational units to verify a user's credentials. When organizational units are used, only users in those organizational units will be allowed to sign in to the application.
-   Access level for reading user information. This setting specifies whether the client can access additional user information. This is useful where the client requests additional user details as part of the authentication process. You can choose to allow this for the entire domain or for one or more organizational units.
-   Specify whether the LDAP client can read group information. This setting specifies whether the LDAP client can read group details and check a user's group memberships for purposes such as a user's role in the application.

6\. Set 'Verify user credentials' to *Entire domain*.

7\. Set 'Read user information' to *Entire domain*.

8\. Click ADD LDAP CLIENT. At this point the service will generate a certificate which you will upload to your LDAP client later. You can download the certificate now using the Download certificate link. You can also generate and download additional certificates at any time from the client's details page.

9\. Click CONTINUE TO CLIENT DETAILS.

This completes the first part of the configuration. For details on how to complete the setup for your particular LDAP client, see the [Connect LDAP clients to the Secure LDAP service](https://support.google.com/a/answer/9089736 "Connect LDAP clients to the Secure LDAP service") article. There are some generic setup instructions here as well as specific instructions for popular applications. New applications are being added all the time so check back regularly. See [Add and connect new LDAP clients](https://support.google.com/a/topic/9173976 "Add and connect new LDAP clients") for detailed instructions on how to connect your LDAP clients and applications to the Secure LDAP service.
