## Introduction

G Suite is 100 percent web, so your users receive new features and updates automatically, without needing to install or update any software. However, you can still control when new features become available for users.

Setting which release track your company is on is an important administration task. It defines when new features and updates are applied in your domain.

To help make that decision, you can choose from:

-   Scheduled release track: (Recommended and enabled by default) Choose this track to delay releasing new features to users, giving you extra time to train your support staff and prepare users for the coming changes. Google releases features to the Scheduled Release track on Tuesdays only, at least one week after the feature was released to the Rapid Release track.
-   Rapid release track: Choose this track if you want users to access new features as soon as Google rolls them out to consumer users. These features have been through testing and quality assurance, but users will see them at the same time you do, before you have a chance to evaluate them for your organization.

## Scenario

For most G Suite customers, we recommend the scheduled release track. However your company has decided that they want to access new features as soon as they're available.

## Directions

1\. Review the [G Suite release calendar](https://gsuite.google.com/whatsnew/calendar/) to see which features are currently on the Rapid Release track. As the administrator, you should be aware of new changes; Rapid Release are marked in red.

2\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

3\. Click the Company profile icon.

4\. Click Profile. You can select domain wide settings using the Profile feature.

5\. In the 'New User Features' section, select the *Rapid release* option.

6\. Click SAVE. Your users will now have access to new user features as soon as Google releases them.

## Notes

1.  It may take up to a day for changes to take effect.

## Help Center resources

-   [Set up G Suite feature releases for users](https://support.google.com/a/answer/172177 "Set up G Suite feature releases for users")
-   [Opt in to new services](https://support.google.com/a/answer/82691 "Opt in to new services")
