## Introduction

There are many third party applications that interact with G Suite using the G Suite APIs. These might be traditional desktop or mobile apps.

Before an application can gain access to a G Suite user's managed account, the application must request access to the data (stating what access it requires) and the user must grant that access. This is done during application installation and this flow is known as 3-legged authorization (3LO). Once authorized the application receives a token that it uses to access that particular user's account. These tokens are known as OAuth 2.0 tokens.

Each API has one or more scopes which determine the precise access allowed. For example: the Gmail API includes the *https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.labels* scope which allows the application to manage labels only. Other scopes exist that allow messages to be read, inserted and sent. It's important that each application only requests access to the data it needs.

As an administrator you can:

-   View the number of connected apps for each API and see how many users have installed the app
-   Disable an API completely and then grant specific apps access by adding them to a whitelist

In this exercise you will block Calendar API access for all external applications. You will then whitelist a single application that you trust to access your organizations calendars. You will also ensure that any applications developed by your organization remain trusted.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/). 

2\. Click the Security icon, scroll down and click on API Permissions section.

You will see a list of G Suite APIs. From here you can enable and disable as required. Beneath each API you can see the number of apps currently using that API and also a user count. You can click on the number of apps link to show which apps are using the API.

3\. Scroll to the bottom of the API list and click the Trusted Apps link. Your Installed Apps list is probably empty at this point in time.

4\. Click the yellow circle with the + sign to add a trusted app.

5\. Set the 'App Type' to *Android*, enter the search string of *Calendar Sync *and click SEARCH.

6\. Select an app from the search results and click ADD. The app you selected is now trusted by your organization.

7\. Click on the INSTALLED tab. The app you trusted previously will not appear as no user has installed it yet.

8\. Return to the API Permissions list and set 'Calendar' API access to *Disabled*.

9\. Scroll down and ensure that the *Trust domain owned apps* box is checked which will ensure any apps developed by your own organization are trusted to access calendar data.

10\. Click SAVE. Read the warning and click YES, I WANT TO DISABLE to confirm.

Now that you have disabled Calendar API access, only the app you trusted above plus any internal apps will be allowed to use the Calendar API.

## Notes

1.  If you intend to disable API access but you want to trust some currently installed applications, add these applications to the trusted list before you disable API access to ensure these applications are not blocked.
2.  After blocking the API/scopes, any already installed apps will stop working and tokens will be revoked.
3.  When a user tries to install an app that has a blocked scope, they see the error message that's shown under 'Display message when users try to access apps with disabled permissions' (below the API scope list). You can edit the default message as needed.
4.  Any applications you whitelist in the G Suite Marketplace, Android whitelist and iOS whitelist settings pages are also automatically trusted.

## Help Center resources

-   [3-legged OAuth Diagram](https://www.google.com/support/enterprise/static/gapps/art/admin/en/cpanel/3-legged-oauth-diagram.png "3-legged OAuth Diagram")
-   [Whitelist connected apps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7281227 "Whitelist connected apps")
-   [Using OAuth 2.0 to Access Google APIs](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2 "Using OAuth 2.0 to Access Google APIs")
