## Introduction

The G Suite Marketplace offers a wide range of enterprise apps that add functionality and features to native Google Cloud apps. Anyone with a G Suite account can use the marketplace.

As the administrator, you can install apps for your users, and authorize which apps users can install for themselves. Once installed, apps are accessible through the App launcher alongside G Suite apps such as Gmail, Calendar and Drive.

The marketplace is available at [apps.google.com/marketplace](https://apps.google.com/marketplace "G Suite Marketplace"). Administrators can also access the marketplace from the admin console.

In this exercise you will install a marketplace app for your entire organization and create a apps whitelist ensuring that your user's can only install the apps which your company has approved.

## Directions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at[ admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

#### Install an app for the entire organization as the G Suite administrator

2\. Click the Apps icon, then click Marketplace apps.

3\. Click the + sign on the top right of the screen to add a new app.

4\. Locate 'Google Analytics' in the list of apps (or any other app of choice) and click on the app icon. You now have the option of installing the app for your entire organization or installing it for your own account.

5\. Click DOMAIN INSTALL.

6\. Read the notification and click CONTINUE.

7\. You will now be prompted to authorize the application for your organization. Review the scopes that the app is requesting access to and if you are happy, check the *I agree to the application's Terms of Service and G Suite Marketplace Terms of Service* box and click Accept,then click Done. Note the drop down box that allows you to turn the app on at the organization level or for an individual OU.

It can take 24 hours for the app to become fully available to your users.

#### Create a whitelist of marketplace apps for your users

Now we have seen how the administrator can install an application for their users, let's see how the administrator can control what individual users can install onto their devices. We will this by setting up a marketplace whitelist.

8\. From the admin console, click the Apps icon, then click Marketplace settings on the left.

9\. Click Manage access to apps. From here you can control what apps your users can install onto their devices.

10\. Set 'Allow Install' to *Allow users to install only whitelisted applications from G Suite Marketplace* and click SAVE.

11\. Click the Manage whitelist link. Note: You can also access the whitelist from the Marketplace apps icon on the Apps page.

12\. Click the + sign on the top right of the screen to add an app to the whitelist.

13\. Locate 'Google Apps Script' in the list of apps (or any other app of choice) and check the box. Click WHITELIST, then click CONFIRM.

#### Verify the apps

It can take some time for apps to become available to your users but let's see if a user in your organization can see the changes you made above.

15\. Sign out and sign back in to G Suite at [apps.google.com/user/hub](https://apps.google.com/user/hub "User hub") as *samantha.morse@yourdomain*. Can you see:

-   Google Analytics in the 'Other cloud-based apps, installed for you by your Admin' section?
-   Google Apps Script in the 'More cloud-based apps' section? (This shows your organizations whitelisted apps).

If you do not see the icons on the user hub page now, try again later as it can take a while for the changes to propagate.

16\. Whilst still logged in as Samantha visit [apps.google.com/marketplace](https://apps.google.com/marketplace "G Suite Marketplace") and click on any app to try and install it. You should see a message in the top right advising you that the app is UNAVAILABLE FOR INSTALL because the app has not been whitelisted.

## Notes

1\. It can take 24 hours for the app to become fully available to your users.

2\. Creating a whitelist does not uninstall and previously installed apps from user's devices.

3\. Just like a Google service, marketplace apps can be turned on and off at the OU level.

## Help Center resources

-   [Evaluate a Marketplace app's security](https://support.google.com/a/answer/180490 "Evaluate a Marketplace app's security")
-   [Access Marketplace apps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/172981 "Access Marketplace apps")
-   [Understand data access for Marketplace apps](https://support.google.com/a/answer/176367 "Understand data access for Marketplace apps")
-   [Delete an app](https://support.google.com/a/answer/6216211 "Delete an app")
