## Introduction

In this exercise, you'll grant the 'Super Admin' role to Alex Bell, the IT Manager. This is an example of a pre-built administrator role that's standard on all G Suite accounts.

## Instructions

1\. If you are not already signed in, sign in to your domain as the administrator at [admin.google.com](https://admin.google.com/).

2\. Click the Users icon.

3\. Locate *Alex Bell* in the user list and click to enter his account page.

4\. Scroll down and select the Admin roles and privileges category card. Alex currently has no Admin roles assigned to him.

5\. Click ASSIGN ROLES.

6\. Click the slider for the predefined 'Super Admin' role and then click SAVE. You should now see the role has now been assigned to Alex.

Now let's investigate the specific privileges you have granted to Alex.

7\. Return to admin console home page click the Admin roles icon.

8\. Click the Super Admin link on the left to view the current users with this role. At this point, this should only be your initial administrator account, plus Alex.

Each pre-built role has a specific set of privileges assigned to it. Super Admin's have all privileges to the entire organization. Let's look at another pre-built role and the privileges that are assigned.

9\. Click Help Desk Admin and then open the Privileges tab and review the assigned privileges. Notice how these administrators have the following 'User' privileges only: 'Read' and 'Reset passwords'.

## Notes

1.  Privileges assigned to pre-built roles cannot be customized.
2.  You can assign an administrator role to a user on the user's account information page, or from the Admin roles page where you define the administrator roles.
3.  When Alex signs in to the admin console, he'll see the default dashboard. Any customizations you made are personal to your own administrator account.
4.  Creating more than three super administrators for your domain can affect some recovery options. See [Add recovery options to your administrator account](https://support.google.com/a/answer/3033063) for more details.

## Help Center resources

-   [Assign administrator roles to a user](https://support.google.com/a/answer/172176 "Assign administrator roles to a user")
